@c This file is part of the Neper software package.
@c Copyright (C) 2003-2016 Romain Quey
@c See the COPYING file in the top-level directory.

@node Developer's Guide
@appendix Developer's Guide

This chapter provides information useful to anyone who plans to
contribute to Neper or wishes to better understand how it works. The code
structure is detailed and information are given on how to efficiently
contribute to it.  If you are missing information, complain!

@section Code Structure

The Neper root directory content is as follows
(the slash character @samp{/} denotes directories),
@itemize
  @item @code{COPYING}: license terms
  @item @code{README}:  information about other files and directories in
  the directory
  @item @code{VERSIONS}: information on the versions of Neper
  @item @code{src/}: source code directory
  @item @code{doc/}: documentation directory
@end itemize

Details on the  @samp{src/} and @samp{doc/} directories are provided in
the following.

@subsection Source Code

Neper's source code is located in directory @file{src/} and consists of
roughly 110,000 lines shared between 250 directories and 1000 text files.
The @samp{src/} directory contains the following files and directories,

@itemize
  @item @code{neper_.h} and @code{neper.c}

  These are the main source code header file and source code file of
  Neper. @samp{neper.c} contains the program @samp{main} function.  It
  reads the arguments passed at the command line and runs the
  corresponding functions, which  can be one of the program module.

  @item @code{neper_t/}, @code{neper_m/} and @code{neper_v/}

  These are directories that contain the source code of each of the
  program modules.  The modules aim to be independent from
  each other as much as possible, that is, a function of a given module
  will never calls a function of another module (with a few exceptions).

  @item @code{neut/}

  @samp{neut} stands for @dfn{Neper utilities}.  The directory contains
  utility functions specific to Neper and used by several modules.

  @item @code{contrib/}

  This directory contains utility functions not specific to
  Neper.  The first one is @samp{ut}, which is a collection of
  general-purpose, low-level C
  functions (memory allocation, etc.). The second one is @samp{orilib},
  which is a collection of routines for orientation manipulation
  (see @url{http://orilib.sourceforge.net}). The last one is ANN,
  a library for nearest neighbour searching (see
  @url{www.cs.umd.edu/~mount/ANN}). Although these libraries
  also are distributed alone (and might be already installed on your
  system), they are included into Neper instead of being considered
  as dependencies (contrary to the GSL, @dots{}), to
  make Neper easier to install.

  @item @code{CMakeLists.txt}, @code{neper_config.h.in} and @code{cmake/}

  These files and directories are specific to the building system, CMake.
  @file{CMakeLists.txt} is the CMake source file, which tells CMake
  where to find the program source files, how to manage dependencies,
  where to install Neper, etc.
  @file{neper_config.h.in} is a small configuration file that is useful
  to CMake for managing dependencies and program version numbers.
  @file{cmake/} contains @file{.cmake} files which help CMake locating
  the dependencies on the system (library and header files).
@end itemize

@page
A module directory, @dfn{@code{neper_@var{X}/}},
  where @samp{@var{X}} stands for the module letter (one of @samp{t},
      @samp{m} or @samp{v}), is structured as follows,

@itemize
  @item @code{neper_@var{X}.h}, @code{neper_@var{X}_.h} and @code{neper_@var{X}.c}

  These are the source code header files and source code file of
  the module. @file{neper_@var{X}.c} contains the module
  function, @samp{@code{neper_@var{X}}}. @file{neper_@var{X}_.h} is the
  source code header file, which is @code{#include}'ed in
  @file{neper_@var{X}.c} and contains a bunch of @code{#include}s to all
  necessary library header files.  @file{neper_@var{X}.h} contains the
  prototype of the module function and is @code{#include}'ed in
  @file{neper_.h}.  Hence, files @file{_.h} are local header files while
  files @file{.h} are header files
  @code{#include}'ed into a upper-level source code header file.
  This is true anywhere in the source code.
  Moreover, any function specific to module @code{@var{X}} is prefixed
  @samp{@code{ne@var{X}_}}.

  @item @code{ne@var{X}_input/} and @code{structIn_@var{X}.h}

  The @samp{@code{ne@var{X}_input/}} directory contains functions for
  reading the value of the arguments passed to module @code{@var{X}}
  from the command line.  The information are recorded into an
  @samp{@code{IN}}
  C structure, which is declared in file @samp{@code{structIn_@var{X}.h}}.

  @item @code{ne@var{X}_@var{foo}/}, @code{ne@var{X}_@var{bar}/}, etc.

  Each of these directories is associated to a specific task
  of the module and contains a function
  of the same name (@samp{@code{ne@var{X}_@var{foo}}}, etc.) which is
  called from function @samp{@code{neper_@var{X}}}. Each directory
  contains a directory tree structure.

  @item @code{CMakeLists.txt}

  This file tells CMake
  where to find the source files and how to manage dependencies in the
  module. It is used by the upper-level @file{CMakeLists.txt} file (there
  is no lower-level @file{CMakeLists.txt} file).
@end itemize

The @file{neut} directory is roughly structured as follows,

@itemize
  @item @code{CMakeLists.txt}

  This file tells CMake
  where to find the source files and how to manage dependencies in the
  module. It is used by the upper-level @file{CMakeLists.txt} file (there
  is no lower-level @file{CMakeLists.txt} file).

  @item @code{neut.h}, @code{neut_t.h}, @code{neut_m.h} and @code{neut_v.h}

  These files are source code header files that @code{#include} header files
  of @code{neut} (which contain function prototypes) and are
  @code{#include}d in the modules. @file{neut.h} @code{#include}s all
  header files while the three others @code{#include} header files only
  necessary to the corresponding module (this speeds up compilation at
  development stage).

  @item @code{neut_structs/}

  This directory contains header files which defines all C structures
  used in the program.

  @item @code{neut_@var{foo}/}, @code{neut_@var{bar}/}, etc.

  Each of these directories contain functions specific to a particular C
  structure.  For example, @file{neut_tess} contains functions relative
  to the @samp{@code{TESS}} structure, which describes a tessellation.
@end itemize

@subsection Documentation

Neper's documentation is located in directory @file{doc/}.  It is written in
Texinfo, the GNU software documentation system.  The documentation
consists of a collection of @file{.texi} files (text files).  The
documentation may be compiled in PDF, info or html format by running
@command{make pdf}, @command{make info} or @command{make html},
respectively. In official releases, both the PDF and
info documentation files are built and included in the archive.

@page
@section Contributing to Neper

The Neper development repository is hosted on GitHub:
@url{https://github.com/rquey/neper}.  Code contributions to be included
in Neper's official (public) version should be submitted as pull
requests on this repository.

@subsection Coding Conventions

Neper is written following the GNU Coding Standards
(@url{http://www.gnu.org/prep/standards}), with the exception that
braces are not indented (because there is so often 3+ loop levels in
Neper). Please follow this convention. Here are a few tips and other
remarks,

@itemize
  @item For Vim, put the following commands in file @file{$HOME/.vimrc}:
@verbatim
    :set sw=2
    :set cindent
    :syntax enable
    :set textwidth=72
@end verbatim

  @item You can run @command{indent -bli0 @var{source_files}} for
        automatic formatting.
  @item Break up the code into meaningful chunks using blank lines.
  Always use a single blank line to separate parts of the code.
  @item Neper admits no compilation warnings. Please fix all of them up.
  @item Please help us maintaining good documentation by documenting any
	capability you may add.
@end itemize

@subsection Adding a New Option

In modules -T and -M, adding a new option can be done by following the
successive steps,

@itemize
  @item Add a variable to the @samp{@code{IN}} structure to record the value of
  the option (file @file{structIn_@var{X}.h}).
  @item If necessary, allocate / free the variable in the @code{ne@var{X}_in_set_zero}
  and @code{ne@var{X}_in_free} functions (file @file{ne@var{X}_input1.c})
  Assign it a default value in @code{net_input_options_default}
  (file @file{ne@var{X}_input3.c}).
  @item Add the option to the option list in
  @code{net_input_options_set} (file @file{ne@var{X}_input3.c}), taking
  as an example another option of the same type (integer, etc.).
  @item Where appropriate in the source code, add a new function for
  the new option (if necessary in a new file or
  directory).  The function should be executed depending on the
  value of the option.
  @item If adding one or several files or directories, add the source
  file(s) to the
  source file list in the @file{CMakeLists.txt} file of the
  corresponding module.
  @item Make sure the whole thing compiles and runs properly for your purpose.
  @item Make sure your own changes did not break anything in
  the rest of the code by running full testing, using @command{make
    test} (or @command{ctest}).
  You may also want to add a test specific to the new option.
@end itemize

In module -V, options are processed differently.  Instead of being
recorded in a C structure, they are read one after the other and
associated functions are executed along the way.  To add a new option,
take an existing option as an example.

@subsection Compilation Options

For development, several compilation options can be changed from their
default values. This must be done at configuration stage, using commands
@samp{@command{ccmake ..}} or @samp{@command{cmake-gui ..}}.  The
compilation options are,

@itemize
  @item @code{DEVEL_DEBUGGING_FLAG}

  Setting the option to @code{ON} turns on the debugging compilation
  flag @samp{@code{-g}}, which is required for debugging with
  @command{gdb} and @command{valgrind}, and turns on the compilation
  flag @samp{@code{-Werror}},
  which makes all compilation warnings into errors.

  @item @code{DEVEL_DEBUGGING_TEST}

  Setting the option to @code{ON} runs
  internal tests during Neper execution at places where the code is
  otherwise considered robust.

  @item @code{DEVEL_OPTIMIZATION}

  Setting this option to @code{OFF} disables code optimization, which is
  useful for debugging with @command{gdb} and @command{valgrind}.

  @item @code{DEVEL_PROFILING}

  Setting this option to @code{ON} turns on the code profiling
  compilation flag @samp{@code{-pg}}, which is required for profiling
  with @command{gprof}.  This is a highy CPU-sensitive option, which
  should be used  only when profiling is actually carried out.

@end itemize

@subsection Testing

The code can be tested using @command{CTest}.  The usual way is
as follows:
@com{ctest}

It is also possible to run only some of the tests.
@itemize
@item
Option @option{-R} selects the tests whose name contains a character
string:
@com{ctest -R @var{string}}

As test names start by the letter of the module they refer to,
followed by @w{character @samp{_}}, it becomes
handy to run tests on a specific module, for example:
@com{ctest -R T_}

@item 
Option @option{-E} selects the tests that do not contain a character
string:
@com{ctest -E @var{string}}

@item 
Option @option{-I} selects the tests from their numbers, for example:
@com{ctest -I 3,5}

@end itemize
