@c This file is part of the Neper software package.
@c Copyright (C) 2003-2019 Romain Quey
@c See the COPYING file in the top-level directory.

@node Expressions and Keys
@appendix Expressions and Keys

@menu
* Mathematical and Logical Expressions::
* Tessellation Keys::
* Raster Tessellation Keys::
* Tessellation Optimization Keys::
* Orientation Optimization Keys::
* Mesh Keys::
* Point Keys::
* Rotations and Orientations::
* Crystal Symmetries::
* Colours::
@end menu

@node Mathematical and Logical Expressions
@section Mathematical and Logical Expressions

@neper{} can handle mathematical expressions.  It makes use of
the @code{muparser} library. The expression must contain no space,
tabulation or new-line characters, and match the following
syntax@footnote{Taken from the @code{muparser} documentation, see
@url{http://beltoforion.de/article.php?a=muparser} for more
information.}.

@subsection Functions

The following table gives an overview of the functions supported by the
default implementation. It lists the function names, the number of
arguments and a brief description.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.83
@headitem Name      @tab Description
@item @code{sin}    @tab sine function
@item @code{cos}    @tab cosine function
@item @code{tan}    @tab tangens function
@item @code{asin}   @tab arcus sine function
@item @code{acos}   @tab arcus cosine function
@item @code{atan}   @tab arcus tangens function
@item @code{sinh}   @tab hyperbolic sine function
@item @code{cosh}   @tab hyperbolic cosine
@item @code{tanh}   @tab hyperbolic tangens function
@item @code{asinh}  @tab hyperbolic arcus sine function
@item @code{acosh}  @tab hyperbolic arcus tangens function
@item @code{atanh}  @tab hyperbolic arcur tangens function
@item @code{log2}   @tab logarithm to the base 2
@item @code{log10}  @tab logarithm to the base 10
@item @code{log}    @tab logarithm to the base 10
@item @code{ln}     @tab logarithm to base @math{e} (2.71828@dots{})
@item @code{exp}    @tab e raised to the power of x
@item @code{sqrt}   @tab square root of a value
@item @code{sign}   @tab sign function: -1 if @math{x<0}; 1 if @math{x>0}
@item @code{rint}   @tab round to nearest integer
@item @code{abs}    @tab absolute value
@item @code{min}    @tab min of all arguments
@item @code{max}    @tab max of all arguments
@item @code{sum}    @tab sum of all arguments
@item @code{avg}    @tab mean value of all arguments
@end multitable

@subsection Binary Operators

The following table lists the default binary operators supported by the
parser.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.36
@headitem Operator      @tab Description    @tab Priority
@item @code{&&}  @tab logical and               @tab 1
@item @code{||}  @tab logical or                @tab 2
@item @code{<=}  @tab less or equal             @tab 4
@item @code{>=}  @tab greater or equal          @tab 4
@item @code{!=}  @tab not equal                 @tab 4
@item @code{==}  @tab equal                     @tab 4
@item @code{>}  @tab greater than               @tab 4
@item @code{<}  @tab less than                  @tab 4
@item @code{+}  @tab addition                   @tab 5
@item @code{-}  @tab subtraction                @tab 5
@item @code{*}  @tab multiplication             @tab 6
@item @code{/}  @tab division                   @tab 6
@item @code{^}  @tab raise x to the power of y  @tab 7
@end multitable

@subsection Ternary Operators

The parser has built in support for the if-then-else operator. It uses lazy evaluation in order to make sure only the necessary branch of the expression is evaluated.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.83
@headitem Operator      @tab Description
@item @code{?:}         @tab if-then-else operator, following the C/C++ syntax: @*@code{(test)?value_if_true:value_if_false}.
@end multitable

@subsection Statistical Distributions

The following table lists the statistical distributions.  Arguments enclosed in square brackets (@samp{[} and @samp{]}) are optional.  Custom endpoints (not indicated) can also be added as arguments, as described in the following.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.4 0.25 0.35
@headitem Operator
          @tab Description
          @tab Information
@item @code{normal(@var{mean},@var{sigma})}
      @tab normal
      @tab
@item @code{lognormal(@var{mean},@var{sigma})}
      @tab lognormal
      @tab
@item @code{dirac(@var{mean})}
      @tab Dirac
      @tab
@item @code{beta(@var{x},@var{y})}
      @tab beta function
      @tab @math{x>0}@comma{} @math{y>0}
@item @code{lorentzian(@var{mean},@var{sigma})}
      @tab Lorentzian
      @tab
@item @code{studentst(@var{mean},@var{sigma})}
      @tab Student's t
      @tab
@item @code{weibull(@var{k},@var{sigma})}
      @tab Weibull
      @tab @math{k > 0} represents the shape
@item @code{breitwigner(@var{mean},@var{sigma}[,@var{gamma}])}
      @tab Breit-Wigner
      @tab @math{gamma @geq{} 0}, default 1
@item @code{expnormal(@var{mean},@var{sigma}[,@var{gamma}])}
      @tab exp-normal
      @tab @math{gamma > 0} default @math{sigma}
@item @code{moffat(@var{mean},@var{sigma}[,@var{gamma}])}
      @tab Moffat
      @tab @math{gamma > 0}, default 1
@item @code{pearson7(@var{mean},@var{sigma}[,@var{gamma}])}
      @tab Pearson type VII
      @tab default @math{gamma = 1.5}
@item @code{pseudovoigt(@var{mean},@var{sigma}[,@var{gamma}])}
      @tab Pseudo-Voigt
      @tab
@iftex
@math{gamma @in [0,@,1]}, default 0.5
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@math{gamma in [0,@,1]}, default 0.5
@end ifinfo
@item @code{skewnormal(@var{mean},@var{sigma}[,@var{gamma}])}
      @tab skewed normal
      @tab default @math{gamma = sigma}
@end multitable

@samp{@code{mean}} represents the mean (or centre), and @samp{@code{sigma}} (@math{>} 0)
represents the standard deviation (or scale). @samp{@code{gamma}}
depends on the distribution function (see the above table).
@c
For all distributions, custom endpoints can be added as last arguments, @samp{@var{from},@var{to}}, where @samp{@var{from}} is the lower end point and @samp{@var{to}} is the upper endpoint.
@c
@c @samp{@code{fromtype}} and @samp{@code{totype}} are not
@c keywords per se, but serve to change the type of the endpoints without using
@c keywords to explicitly assign one to them (0 = disable/ignore limit, 1 =
@c inclusive limit, 2 = exclusive limit).
@c
If the parameter keywords are used, the parameters can be given in any order; e.g.,
@samp{@code{moffat(@var{gamma}=1,@var{from}=0,@var{to}=1,@var{sigma}=0.1,@var{mean}=0.5)}}.
Otherwise, the parameters are read based on their positions; e.g.,
@samp{@code{lognormal(0.25,0.01)}} yields @math{mean=0.25} and @math{sigma=0.01}.
It is also possible (but not recommended) to specify some variables by keyword
and let others be read by position.  Endpoints are considered inclusive by default, but exclusive endpoints can be specified using @samp{fromexclusive=@var{from}} and @samp{toexclusive=@var{to}}
(@samp{frominclusive=@var{from}} and @samp{toinclusive=@var{to}} can be used for inclusive endpoints).
@c
String completion is available for the keywords.
Finally, a sum of distributions of increasing averages can be provided;
e.g., @samp{0.3*lognormal(0.5,0.1)+0.7*normal(1,0.1)}.

@node Tessellation Keys
@section Tessellation Keys

Available keys for tessellation seeds, vertices, edges, faces and polyhedra
are provided below.
Also note that the descriptors apply to @emph{cells} if they are tagged to
apply to @emph{polyhedra} and the tessellation is 3D and @emph{faces} and the
tessellation is 2D.

To turn a key value into a value relative to the mean over all entities
(e.g.@ the relative cell size), append the key expression with
the @samp{@SEPDEP{}rel} modifier.  To turn a key value into a value
which holds for a unit cell size, append the key expression with
the @samp{@SEPDEP{}uc} modifier.  To use as a reference only the
@dfn{body} or @dfn{true} entities (see below), append @samp{b} or
@samp{t} to the modifiers, respectively.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.36
  @headitem Key   @tab Descriptor                      @tab Apply to
  @item @code{id} @tab identifier                      @tab seed, ver, edge, face, poly
  @item @code{x}  @tab x coordinate                    @tab seed, ver, edge, face, poly
  @item @code{y}  @tab y coordinate                    @tab seed, ver, edge, face, poly
  @item @code{z}  @tab z coordinate                    @tab seed, ver, edge, face, poly
  @item @code{xmin}  @tab minimum x coordinate         @tab edge, face, poly
  @item @code{ymin}  @tab minimum y coordinate         @tab edge, face, poly
  @item @code{zmin}  @tab minimum z coordinate         @tab edge, face, poly
  @item @code{xmax}  @tab maximum x coordinate         @tab edge, face, poly
  @item @code{ymax}  @tab maximum y coordinate         @tab edge, face, poly
  @item @code{zmax}  @tab maximum z coordinate         @tab edge, face, poly
  @item @code{w}  @tab weight (width for a lamella tessellation) @tab seed, cell
  @item @code{true}  @tab true level                   @tab ver, edge, face, poly
  @item @code{body}  @tab body level                   @tab ver, edge, face, poly
  @item @code{state}  @tab state                       @tab ver, edge, face, poly
  @item @code{domtype}  @tab type of domain (0 if on a domain vertex, 1
      if on a domain edge and 2 if on a domain face) @tab ver, edge, face
  @item @code{domface}  @tab domain face (-1 if undefined) @tab face
  @item @code{domedge}  @tab domain edge (-1 if undefined) @tab edge
  @item @code{domver}  @tab domain vertex (-1 if undefined) @tab ver
  @item @code{scale}  @tab scale @tab face@footnote{Applies only to a 3D tessellation and relevant for multiscale tessellations.  The scale of a face is the scale at which the face was created, and it ranges from 0 (for domain faces) to the number of scales of the tessellation (for the last created faces).}
  @item @code{length}  @tab length                     @tab edge
  @item @code{area}  @tab area                         @tab face, poly
  @item @code{vol} @tab volume                         @tab poly
  @item @code{size}  @tab size (area/volume in 2D/3D) @tab cell
  @item @code{diameq}  @tab equivalent
    diameter@footnote{Equivalent diameter = diameter
    of the circle of equivalent area/volume in 2D/3D.} @tab face, poly
  @item @code{radeq}  @tab equivalent
    radius@footnote{Equivalent radius = radius of the
    circle of equivalent area/volume in 2D/3D.}        @tab face, poly
  @item @code{circularity}  @tab circularity (2D counterpart of sphericity)          @tab face
  @item @code{sphericity}  @tab sphericity@footnote{Sphericity of a
    polyhedron = ratio of the surface area of
      the sphere of equivalent volume to the surface area of the
      polyhedron.} @tab poly
  @item @code{convexity}  @tab convexity@footnote{Convexity of a
    polyhedron (face) = ratio of the volume (area) of the polyhedron
      (face) to the volume (area) of the convex hull of the polyhedron
      (face).} @tab face@footnote{Applies only to a 2D tessellation.}, poly
  @item @code{dihangleav} @tab average dihedral angle @tab face, poly
  @item @code{dihanglemin} @tab minimum dihedral angle @tab face, poly
  @item @code{dihanglemax} @tab maximum dihedral angle @tab face, poly
  @item @code{dihangles} @tab dihedral angles @tab face, poly
  @item @code{ff} @tab flatness fault (in degrees)     @tab face
  @item @code{theta} @tab disorientation angle (in degrees)     @tab edge (in 2D), face (in 3D)
  @item @code{cyl} @tab whether or not is used to describe the
                        circular part of a cylinder domain @tab edge
  @item @code{vernb}  @tab number of vertices          @tab edge, face, poly
  @item @code{vers}  @tab vertices                  @tab edge, face, poly
  @item @code{edgenb}  @tab number of edges            @tab ver, face, poly
  @item @code{edges}  @tab edges                    @tab ver, face, poly
  @item @code{facenb}  @tab number of faces            @tab ver, edge, poly
  @item @code{faces}  @tab faces                    @tab ver, edge, poly
  @item @code{polynb}  @tab number of polyhedra        @tab ver, edge, face
  @item @code{polys}  @tab polyhedra                @tab ver, edge, face
  @item @code{nfacenb}  @tab number of neighbouring faces @tab face
  @item @code{nfaces} @tab neighbouring faces @tab face
  @item @code{npolynb} @tab number of neighbouring polyhedra @tab poly
  @item @code{npolys} @tab neighbouring polyhedra            @tab poly
  @item @code{nseednb} @tab number of neighbouring seeds @tab poly
  @item @code{nseeds} @tab neighbouring seeds
  @footnote{If a polyhedron has no neighbour on a face, a negative value
    is returned.} @tab poly
  @item @code{vercoos}  @tab vertex coordinates @tab face, poly
  @item @code{faceareas} @tab face surface areas @tab poly
  @item @code{faceeqs} @tab face equations@footnote{A face equation is specified by
the parameters @math{d}, @math{a}, @math{b} and @math{c}, with the equation being: @math{a x + b y + c z = d}.  The vector
@math{(a, b, c)} is pointing outwards of the polyhedron.}
  @tab poly
  @item @code{scaleid(@var{scale})}  @tab identifier of the corresponding cell at scale
  @var{scale} @tab cell
  @item @code{lamid}  @tab lamella width id@footnote{In the case of a
    lamellar tessellation with several lamella
      widths@comma{} @var{lamid} stands for the actual lamellar width
  of the cell (starting from 1).}            @tab face, poly
  @item @code{modeid}  @tab mode id@footnote{In the case of a
    multimodal tessellation (e.g.@ in terms of cell size)@comma{}
    @var{modeid} stands for the actual mode (starting from 1).}            @tab face, poly
  @item @code{e}  @tab Euler angles (Bunge convention) @tab seed, face (in 2D), poly
@end multitable

Variables consisting of several values (@samp{vers}, etc.) are not available for sorting
(option @option{-sort}).

For a cell, the @code{body} and @code{true} variables are
defined as follows,
@itemize
@item @code{@var{body}} is an integer equal to @code{0} if the
cell is at the domain boundary, i.e.@ if it shares at least one
face with it (edge in 2D), and is equal to @code{1}
or higher otherwise.  This is
determined as follows: if a cell is surrounded by cells with
@code{@var{body}} values equal to or higher than @code{@var{n}}, its
@code{@var{body}} value is equal to @w{@code{@var{n} + 1}}.
Therefore, @code{body} tends to increase with the distance to the domain
boundary and can be used to define cells that may suffer from
boundary effects.
@c
@item @code{@var{true}} is an integer equal to @code{0} it the
cell shape is biased by the domain boundary, and is equal to
@code{1} or higher otherwise. A value higher than @code{0} is achieved
if and only if any seed that would
have been located outside the domain (where it could not be)
would not have affected the shape of the cell. This condition is
fulfilled if the distance between the seed of the cell and any
of its vertices is lower than the minimum distance between a vertex
of the cell and the domain boundary.  @code{@var{true}} is
extended to values higher than @code{1} in the same way as body:
if a
cell is surrounded by cells with @code{@var{true}} values
equal to or higher than @code{@var{n}}, its @code{@var{true}} value is equal
to @w{@code{@var{n} + 1}}.
As @code{@var{body}}, @code{@var{true}} tends to increase with the
distance to the domain boundary,
and
@iftex
@math{@var{true}@leq@var{body}}.
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@code{@var{true}<=@var{body}}.
@end ifinfo
@code{@var{true}} is especially useful for statistics on
the cells (morphology, mesh, etc.), for which only cells with
@iftex
@math{@var{true}@geq 1}
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@var{true} >= 1
@end ifinfo
should be considered.
@end itemize

For entities of lower dimension than cells (vertices, edges and faces),
@code{@var{body}} and @code{@var{true}} are equal to the maximum
@code{@var{body}} or @code{@var{true}} values of the cells they belong
to.

@node Raster Tessellation Keys
@section Raster Tessellation Keys

Available keys for raster tessellation seeds and cells are provided below.
Mathematical and logical expressions based on these keys can also be
used.
To turn a key value into a value relative to the mean over all entities
(e.g.@ the relative cell size), append the key expression with
the @samp{@SEPDEP{}rel} modifier.  To turn a key value into a value
which holds for a unit cell size, append the key expression with
the @samp{@SEPDEP{}uc} modifier.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.36
  @headitem Key     @tab Descriptor                   @tab Apply to
  @item @code{id}   @tab identifier                   @tab seed, cell, voxel
  @item @code{x}    @tab x coordinate                 @tab seed, cell, voxel
  @item @code{y}    @tab y coordinate                 @tab seed, cell, voxel
  @item @code{z}    @tab z coordinate                 @tab seed, cell, voxel
  @item @code{xyz}  @tab x, y and z coordinates       @tab seed, cell, voxel
  @item @code{vx}   @tab x coordinate (in voxel)      @tab voxel
  @item @code{vy}   @tab y coordinate (in voxel)      @tab voxel
  @item @code{vz}   @tab z coordinate (in voxel)      @tab voxel
  @item @code{vxyz} @tab x, y and z coordinates (in voxel) @tab voxel
  @item @code{e}    @tab Euler angles (Bunge convention) @tab cell, voxel
  @item @code{cell} @tab cell                         @tab voxel
  @item @code{w}    @tab Laguerre weight              @tab seed
  @item @code{size}  @tab size (area/volume in 2D/3D) @tab cell
  @item @code{diameq}  @tab equivalent
    diameter@footnote{Equivalent diameter = diameter
    of the circle of equivalent area/volume in 2D/3D.}@tab cell
  @item @code{radeq}  @tab equivalent
    radius@footnote{Equivalent radius = radius of the
    circle of equivalent area/volume in 2D/3D.}       @tab cell
  @item @code{convexity}  @tab convexity@footnote{Convexity of a cell = ratio of the volume of the cell to the volume of the convex hull of the cell.} @tab cell
  @item @code{voxsizex} @tab Voxel  size in direction x @tab general
  @item @code{voxsizey} @tab Voxel  size in direction y @tab general
  @item @code{voxsizez} @tab Voxel  size in direction z @tab general
  @item @code{domsizex} @tab Domain size in direction x @tab general
  @item @code{domsizey} @tab Domain size in direction y @tab general
  @item @code{domsizez} @tab Domain size in direction z @tab general
@end multitable

@node Tessellation Optimization Keys
@section Tessellation Optimization Keys

@subsection Time Keys

The available keys for option @option{-morphooptilogtime} are provided
below.
Use @samp{iter(@var{factor})}, where @samp{@var{factor}} is an integer reduction
factor, to log values only at specific iteration numbers.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.82
  @headitem Key                @tab Descriptor
  @item @code{iter}            @tab iteration number
  @item @code{varupdateqty}    @tab number of updated variables
  @item @code{seedupdateqty}   @tab number of updated seeds
  @item @code{seedupdatelist}  @tab list of updated seeds
  @item @code{cellupdateqty}   @tab number of updated cells
  @item @code{cellupdatelist}  @tab list of updated cells
  @item @code{var}             @tab time for variable update
  @item @code{seed}            @tab time for seed update
  @item @code{cell_init}       @tab time for cell update initialization
  @item @code{cell_kdtree}     @tab time for cell update kdtree computation
  @item @code{cell_shift}      @tab time for cell update shift computation
  @item @code{cell_neigh}      @tab time for cell update neigh@. computation
  @item @code{cell_cell}       @tab time for cell update cell computation
  @item @code{cell_other}      @tab time for cell update others
  @item @code{cell_total}      @tab total time for cell update
  @item @code{val}             @tab time for (objective function) value update
  @item @code{val_init}        @tab time for (objective function) value update / initialization
  @item @code{val_penalty}     @tab time for (objective function) value update / penalty computation
  @item @code{val_val}         @tab time for (objective function) value update / value computation
  @item @code{val_val_cellval} @tab time for (objective function) value update / value computation / cell values
  @item @code{val_val_comp}    @tab time for (objective function) value update / value computation / computation
  @item @code{val_comp}        @tab time for (objective function) value update / computation
  @item @code{total}           @tab total time
  @item @code{cumtotal}        @tab cumulative total time
@end multitable

@need 1200
@subsection Variable Keys

The available keys for option @option{-morphooptilogvar} are provided
below.
Use @samp{iter(@var{factor})}, where @samp{@var{factor}} is an integer reduction
factor, to log values only at specific iteration numbers.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.36
  @headitem Key    @tab Descriptor                   @tab Apply to
  @item @code{iter}@tab iteration number             @tab n/a
  @item @code{id}  @tab identifier                   @tab seed
  @item @code{x}   @tab x coordinate                 @tab seed
  @item @code{y}   @tab y coordinate                 @tab seed
  @item @code{z}   @tab z coordinate                 @tab seed
  @item @code{w}   @tab weight                       @tab seed
@end multitable

@subsection Objective Function Value Keys

The available keys for option @option{-morphooptilogval} are provided
below.
Use @samp{iter(@var{factor})}, where @samp{@var{factor}} is an integer reduction
factor, to log values only at specific iteration numbers.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.36
  @headitem Key    @tab Descriptor                   @tab Apply to
  @item @code{iter}@tab iteration number             @tab n/a
  @item @code{val}  @tab value 	                     @tab n/a
  @item @code{valmin}  @tab minimal value 	     @tab n/a
  @item @code{val0}  @tab value, without smoothing 	                     @tab n/a
  @item @code{valmin0}  @tab minimal value, without smoothing 	     @tab n/a
  @item @code{val(@var{i})} @tab @var{i}th subvalue  @tab n/a
  @item @code{val0(@var{i})} @tab @var{i}th subvalue, without smoothing @tab n/a
  @item @code{eps} @tab error on the objective function (see option @option{-morphooptistop}) @tab n/a
  @item @code{reps} @tab relative error on the objective function (see option @option{-morphooptistop}) @tab n/a
  @item @code{loop} @tab optimization loop           @tab n/a
  @item @code{plateaulength} @tab current plateau length@footnote{Number of iterations during which the objective function did not decrease.} @tab n/a
@end multitable

@subsection Statistical Distribution Keys

The available keys for option @option{-morphooptilogdis} are provided
below. PDF stands for @dfn{probability density function} and CDF stands
for @dfn{cumulative probability density function}.
Use @samp{iter(@var{factor})}, where @samp{@var{factor}} is a reduction
factor, to log values only at specific iteration numbers.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.36
  @headitem Key    @tab Descriptor              @tab Apply to
  @item @code{iter}@tab iteration number        @tab n/a
  @item @code{x}   @tab x coordinate            @tab n/a
  @item @code{tarpdf}  @tab target PDF		@tab n/a
  @item @code{tarcdf}  @tab target CDF 		@tab n/a
  @item @code{curpdf}  @tab current PDF         @tab n/a
  @item @code{curcdf}  @tab current CDF 	@tab n/a
  @item @code{tarpdf0}  @tab target PDF, not smoothed @tab n/a
  @item @code{tarcdf0}  @tab target CDF, not smoothed @tab n/a
  @item @code{curcdf0}  @tab current CDF, not smoothed @tab n/a
@end multitable

@subsection Raster Tessellation Voxel Keys

The available keys for option @option{-morphooptilogtesr} are provided
below.  Values are written for each voxel used to compute the objective function.
Use @samp{iter(@var{factor})}, where @samp{@var{factor}} is a reduction
factor, to log values only at specific iteration numbers.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.36
  @headitem Key     @tab Descriptor              @tab Apply to
  @item @code{iter} @tab iteration number        @tab n/a
  @item @code{id}   @tab cell identifier	 @tab n/a
  @item @code{x}    @tab x coordinate            @tab n/a
  @item @code{y}    @tab y coordinate            @tab n/a
  @item @code{z}    @tab z coordinate            @tab n/a
  @item @code{dist} @tab distance to the cell    @tab n/a
@end multitable

@node Orientation Optimization Keys
@section Orientation Optimization Keys

@subsection Variable Keys

The available keys for option @option{-orioptilogvar} are provided
below.  For all orientation descriptors but @samp{q}, the returned orientation are located in the fundamental region.
@c Use @samp{iter(@var{factor})}, where @samp{@var{factor}} is an integer reduction
@c factor, to log values only at specific iteration numbers.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.36
  @headitem Key    @tab Descriptor                          @tab Apply to
  @item @code{iter}@tab iteration number                    @tab n/a
  @item @code{id}  @tab identifier                          @tab seed
  @item @code{g}  @tab rotation matrix                      @tab seed
  @item @code{rtheta}  @tab rotation axis / angle pair      @tab seed
  @item @code{R}  @tab Rodrigues vector                     @tab seed
  @item @code{q}  @tab quaternion                           @tab seed
  @item @code{e}  @tab Euler angles (Bunge convention)      @tab seed
  @item @code{ek} @tab Euler angles (Kocks convention)      @tab seed
  @item @code{er} @tab Euler angles (Roe convention)        @tab seed
@end multitable

@node Mesh Keys
@section Mesh Keys

Available keys for mesh node, elements and element sets (of all
dimensions) and points are provided below.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.36
  @headitem Key       @tab Descriptor                       @tab Apply to
  @item @code{id}     @tab identifier                       @tab node, @var{n}D elt, @var{n}D elset
  @item @code{x}      @tab x coordinate                     @tab node, @var{n}D elt, @var{n}D elset
  @item @code{y}      @tab y coordinate                     @tab node, @var{n}D elt, @var{n}D elset
  @item @code{z}      @tab z coordinate                     @tab node, @var{n}D elt, @var{n}D elset
  @item @code{dim}    @tab dimension (= lowest parent elt dimension) @tab node
  @item @code{elset0d} @tab 0D elset                        @tab 0D elt
  @item @code{elset1d} @tab 1D elset                        @tab 1D elt
  @item @code{elset2d} @tab 2D elset                        @tab 2D elt
  @item @code{elset3d} @tab 3D elset                        @tab 3D elt
  @item @code{part}   @tab partition                       @tab @var{n}D elt, node
  @item @code{cyl} @tab whether or not is used to describe the
                        circular part of a cylinder domain @tab 1D elt, 1D elset
  @item @code{vol}    @tab volume                           @tab 3D elt, 3D elset
  @item @code{area}   @tab area                             @tab 2D elt
  @item @code{length} @tab length                           @tab 1D elt, 3D elt, 1D elset
  @item @code{elsetvol}    @tab elset volume                @tab 3D elt
  @item @code{elsetarea}   @tab elset area                  @tab 2D elt
  @item @code{elsetlength} @tab elset length                @tab 1D elt
  @item @code{rr}     @tab radius ratio                     @tab 3D elt
  @item @code{rrav}, @code{rrmin}, @code{rrmax}
                      @tab average, min and max radius ratios @tab 3D elset
  @item @code{Osize}  @tab Osize                            @tab 3D elset
  @item @code{eltnb}  @tab number of elements               @tab @var{n}D elset
  @item @code{true}   @tab true level                       @tab @var{n}D elt, @var{n}D elset
  @item @code{body}   @tab body level                       @tab @var{n}D elt, @var{n}D elset
  @item @code{domtype}  @tab type of domain (0 if on a domain vertex, 1
      if on a domain edge and 2 if on a domain face) @tab @w{2D elset},
  @w{1D elset}, @w{0D elset}, @w{2D elt}, @w{1D elt}, @w{0D elt}
  @item @code{2dmeshp}@tab coordinates of the closest point of the 2D mesh     @tab node, 3D elt
  @item @code{2dmeshd}@tab distance to @samp{2dmeshp} @tab node, 3D elt
  @item @code{2dmeshv}@tab vector to @samp{2dmeshp}   @tab node, 3D elt
  @item @code{2dmeshn}@tab outgoing normal vector of the 2D mesh
		     at @samp{2dmeshp}                @tab node, 3D elt
  @item @code{e}  @tab Euler angles (Bunge convention) @tab 2D elt, 3D elt, 2D elset, 3D elset
@end multitable

@dfn{@var{n}D} stands for an arbitrary dimension (from 0D to 3D).
Variables starting by @samp{2dmesh} are only available for statistics
(options starting by @option{-stat} of @mM{}); for elements, they apply to the centroids.

@node Point Keys
@section Point Keys

Available keys for points are provided below.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.14 0.14
  @headitem Key   @tab Descriptor                      @tab Apply to @tab Require
  @item @code{id} @tab identifier                      @tab point    @tab
  @item @code{x}  @tab x coordinate                    @tab point    @tab
  @item @code{y}  @tab y coordinate                    @tab point    @tab
  @item @code{z}  @tab z coordinate                    @tab point    @tab
  @item @code{cell}  @tab cell                         @tab point    @tab tessellation
  @item @code{elt}    @tab containing element          @tab point    @tab mesh
  @item @code{elset}  @tab containing elset            @tab point    @tab mesh
  @item @code{2dmeshp}@tab coordinates of the closest point of the 2D mesh     @tab point    @tab 3D mesh
  @item @code{2dmeshd}@tab distance to @samp{2dmeshp} @tab point    @tab 3D mesh
  @item @code{2dmeshv}@tab vector to @samp{2dmeshp}   @tab point    @tab 3D mesh
  @item @code{2dmeshn}@tab outgoing normal vector of the 2D mesh
		     at @samp{2dmeshp}                @tab point    @tab 3D mesh
@end multitable

@node Rotations and Orientations
@section Rotations and Orientations

Rotations and orientations can be described using the following
descriptors (see Orilib, @url{http://orilib.sourceforge.net}, for more
information).

@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.36
  @headitem Key @tab Descriptor @tab Number of variables
  @item @code{g}  @tab rotation matrix                 @tab 9
  @item @code{rtheta}  @tab rotation axis / angle pair @tab 4
  @item @code{R}  @tab Rodrigues vector                @tab 3
  @item @code{q}  @tab quaternion                      @tab 4
  @item @code{e}  @tab Euler angles (Bunge convention) @tab 3
  @item @code{ek} @tab Euler angles (Kocks convention) @tab 3
  @item @code{er} @tab Euler angles (Roe convention)   @tab 3
@end multitable

@sp 1
Keys are available for ideal orientations:
@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.83
@iftex
  @item Cube      @tab @math{@left(0@,0@,1@right)@left[1@,0@,0@right]}
  @item Goss      @tab @math{@left(0@,1@,1@right)@left[1@,0@,0@right]}
  @item U         @tab @math{@left(1@,0@,1@right)@left[@bar{1}@,0@,1@right]}
  @item 45NDCube  @tab @math{@left(0@,0@,1@right)@left[1@,@bar{1}@,0@right]}
  @item S1        @tab @math{@left(1@,2@,3@right)@left[6@,3@,@bar{4}@right]}
  @item S2        @tab @math{@left(@bar{1}@,2@,3@right)@left[6@,@bar{3}@,4@right]}
  @item S3        @tab @math{@left(1@,@bar{2}@,3@right)@left[6@,@bar{3}@,@bar{4}@right]}
  @item S4        @tab @math{@left(@bar{1}@,@bar{2}@,3@right)@left[6@,3@,4@right]}
  @item Brass1    @tab @math{@left(1@,1@,0@right)@left[1@,@bar{1}@,2@right]}
  @item Brass2    @tab @math{@left(@bar{1}@,1@,0@right)@left[1@,1@,@bar{2}@right]}
  @item Copper1   @tab @math{@left(1@,1@,2@right)@left[1@,1@,@bar{1}@right]}
  @item Copper2   @tab @math{@left(@bar{1}@,1@,2@right)@left[1@,@bar{1}@,1@right]}
@end iftex
@ifinfo
  @item Cube      @tab (0, 0, 1)[1, 0, 0]
  @item Goss      @tab (0, 1, 1)[1, 0, 0]
  @item U         @tab (1, 0, 1)[-1, 0, 1]
  @item 45NDCube  @tab (0, 0, 1)[1, -1, 0]
  @item S1        @tab (1, 2, 3)[6, 3, -4]
  @item S2        @tab (-1, 2, 3)[6, -3, 4]
  @item S3        @tab (1, -2, 3)[6, -3, -4]
  @item S4        @tab (-1, -2, 3)[6, 3, 4]
  @item Brass1    @tab (1, 1, 0)[1, -1, 2]
  @item Brass2    @tab (-1, 1, 0)[1, 1, -2]
  @item Copper1   @tab (1, 1, 2)[1, 1, -1]
  @item Copper2   @tab (-1, 1, 2)[1, -1, 1]
@end ifinfo
@end multitable

@node Crystal Symmetries
@section Crystal Symmetries

Crystal symmetries can be described using the following
descriptors.

@iftex
@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.36
  @headitem Key @tab Descriptor @tab Number of operators
  @item @code{triclinic} @tab triclinic (Laue group @math{@overline{1}}) @tab 24
  @item @code{cubic}     @tab cubic				@tab 24
  @item @code{hexagonal} @tab hexagonal				@tab @phantom{0}1
  @item @code{-1}        @tab Laue group @math{@overline{1}}	@tab @phantom{0}1
  @item @code{2/m}       @tab Laue group @math{2/m}		@tab @phantom{0}2
  @item @code{mmm}       @tab Laue group @math{mmm}		@tab @phantom{0}4
  @item @code{4/m}       @tab Laue group @math{4/m}		@tab @phantom{0}4
  @item @code{4/mmm}     @tab Laue group @math{4/mmm}		@tab @phantom{0}8
  @item @code{-3}        @tab Laue group @math{@overline{3}}	@tab @phantom{0}3
  @item @code{-3m}       @tab Laue group @math{@overline{3}m}	@tab @phantom{0}6
  @item @code{6/m}       @tab Laue group @math{6/m}		@tab @phantom{0}6
  @item @code{6/mmm}     @tab Laue group @math{6/mmm}		@tab 12
  @item @code{m-3}       @tab Laue group @math{m@overline{3}}	@tab 12
  @item @code{m-3m}       @tab Laue group @math{m@overline{3}m}		@tab 24
@end multitable
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.47 0.36
  @headitem Key @tab Descriptor @tab Number of operators
  @item @code{triclinic} @tab triclinic (Laue group @math{-1})  @tab 24
  @item @code{cubic}     @tab cubic				@tab 24
  @item @code{hexagonal} @tab hexagonal				@tab 1
  @item @code{-1}        @tab Laue group @math{-1}	        @tab 1
  @item @code{2/m}       @tab Laue group @math{2/m}		@tab 2
  @item @code{mmm}       @tab Laue group @math{mmm}		@tab 4
  @item @code{4/m}       @tab Laue group @math{4/m}		@tab 4
  @item @code{4/mmm}     @tab Laue group @math{4/mmm}		@tab 8
  @item @code{-3}        @tab Laue group @math{-3}	        @tab 3
  @item @code{-3m}       @tab Laue group @math{-3m}	        @tab 6
  @item @code{6/m}       @tab Laue group @math{6/m}		@tab 6
  @item @code{6/mmm}     @tab Laue group @math{6/mmm}		@tab 12
  @item @code{m-3}       @tab Laue group @math{m-3}	        @tab 12
  @item @code{m-3m}       @tab Laue group @math{m-3m}		@tab 24
@end multitable
@end ifinfo

@sp 1
Keys are available for ideal orientations:
@multitable @columnfractions 0.18 0.83
@iftex
  @item Cube      @tab @math{@left(0@,0@,1@right)@left[1@,0@,0@right]}
  @item Goss      @tab @math{@left(0@,1@,1@right)@left[1@,0@,0@right]}
  @item U         @tab @math{@left(1@,0@,1@right)@left[@bar{1}@,0@,1@right]}
  @item 45NDCube  @tab @math{@left(0@,0@,1@right)@left[1@,@bar{1}@,0@right]}
  @item S1        @tab @math{@left(1@,2@,3@right)@left[6@,3@,@bar{4}@right]}
  @item S2        @tab @math{@left(@bar{1}@,2@,3@right)@left[6@,@bar{3}@,4@right]}
  @item S3        @tab @math{@left(1@,@bar{2}@,3@right)@left[6@,@bar{3}@,@bar{4}@right]}
  @item S4        @tab @math{@left(@bar{1}@,@bar{2}@,3@right)@left[6@,3@,4@right]}
  @item Brass1    @tab @math{@left(1@,1@,0@right)@left[1@,@bar{1}@,2@right]}
  @item Brass2    @tab @math{@left(@bar{1}@,1@,0@right)@left[1@,1@,@bar{2}@right]}
  @item Copper1   @tab @math{@left(1@,1@,2@right)@left[1@,1@,@bar{1}@right]}
  @item Copper2   @tab @math{@left(@bar{1}@,1@,2@right)@left[1@,@bar{1}@,1@right]}
@end iftex
@ifinfo
  @item Cube      @tab (0, 0, 1)[1, 0, 0]
  @item Goss      @tab (0, 1, 1)[1, 0, 0]
  @item U         @tab (1, 0, 1)[-1, 0, 1]
  @item 45NDCube  @tab (0, 0, 1)[1, -1, 0]
  @item S1        @tab (1, 2, 3)[6, 3, -4]
  @item S2        @tab (-1, 2, 3)[6, -3, 4]
  @item S3        @tab (1, -2, 3)[6, -3, -4]
  @item S4        @tab (-1, -2, 3)[6, 3, 4]
  @item Brass1    @tab (1, 1, 0)[1, -1, 2]
  @item Brass2    @tab (-1, 1, 0)[1, 1, -2]
  @item Copper1   @tab (1, 1, 2)[1, 1, -1]
  @item Copper2   @tab (-1, 1, 2)[1, -1, 1]
@end ifinfo
@end multitable

@node Colours
@section Colours

The available colours are provided below, with their corresponding RGB
channel values. Any other colour can be defined from the RGB channel
values, under format
@samp{@w{@var{R_value}|@var{G_value}|@var{B_value}}}.

@iftex
@multitable @columnfractions 0.155 0.32 0.18 0.32
@item (@phantom{00}0, @phantom{00}0, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{black}
@tab  (255, @phantom{00}0, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{red}
@item (@phantom{00}0, 255, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{green}
@tab  (@phantom{00}0, @phantom{00}0, 255) @tab @code{blue}
@item (255, 255, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{yellow}
@tab  (255, @phantom{00}0, 255) @tab @code{magenta}
@item (@phantom{00}0, 255, 255) @tab @code{cyan}
@tab  (255, 255, 255) @tab @code{white}
@item (128, @phantom{00}0, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{maroon}
@tab  (@phantom{00}0, @phantom{00}0, 128) @tab @code{navy}
@item (127, 255, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{chartreuse}
@tab  (@phantom{00}0, 255, 127) @tab @code{springgreen}
@item (128, 128, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{olive}
@tab  (128, @phantom{00}0, 128) @tab @code{purple}
@item (@phantom{00}0, 128, 128) @tab @code{teal}
@tab  (128, 128, 128) @tab @code{grey}
@item (@phantom{00}0, 191, 255) @tab @code{deepskyblue}
@tab  (124, 252, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{lawngreen}
@item (@phantom{0}64, @phantom{0}64, @phantom{0}64) @tab @code{darkgrey}
@tab  (255, @phantom{0}69, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{orangered}
@item (192, 192, 192) @tab @code{silver}
@tab  (255, 250, 250) @tab @code{snow}
@item (139, @phantom{00}0, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{darkred}
@tab  (@phantom{00}0, @phantom{00}0, 139) @tab @code{darkblue}
@item (255, 140, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{darkorange}
@tab  (240, 255, 255) @tab @code{azure}
@item (248, 248, 255) @tab @code{ghostwhite}
@tab  (255, 255, 240) @tab @code{ivory}
@item (@phantom{00}0, @phantom{00}0, 205) @tab @code{mediumblue}
@tab  (255, 182, 193) @tab @code{lightpink}
@item (245, 255, 250) @tab @code{mintcream}
@tab  (@phantom{0}75, @phantom{00}0, 130) @tab @code{indigo}
@item (240, 128, 128) @tab @code{lightcoral}
@tab  (255, 192, 203) @tab @code{pink}
@item (255, 127, @phantom{0}80) @tab @code{coral}
@tab  (250, 128, 114) @tab @code{salmon}
@item (255, 250, 240) @tab @code{floralwhite}
@tab  (127, 255, 212) @tab @code{aquamarine}
@item (255, 250, 205) @tab @code{lemonchiffon}
@tab  (255, 215, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{gold}
@item (@phantom{00}0, 100, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{darkgreen}
@tab  (255, 165, @phantom{00}0) @tab @code{orange}
@item (240, 248, 255) @tab @code{aliceblue}
@tab  (224, 255, 255) @tab @code{lightcyan}
@item (255, 255, 224) @tab @code{lightyellow}
@tab  (139, @phantom{00}0, 139) @tab @code{darkmagenta}
@item (@phantom{00}0, 139, 139) @tab @code{darkcyan}
@tab  (205, 133, @phantom{0}63) @tab @code{peru}
@item (@phantom{0}70, 130, 180) @tab @code{steelblue}
@tab  (255, 240, 245) @tab @code{lavenderblush}
@item (255, 245, 238) @tab @code{seashell}
@tab  (@phantom{00}0, 250, 154) @tab @code{mediumspringgreen}
@item (@phantom{0}72, @phantom{0}61, 139) @tab @code{darkslateblue}
@tab  (184, 134, @phantom{0}11) @tab @code{darkgoldenrod}
@item (255, 160, 122) @tab @code{lightsalmon}
@tab  (255, 228, 196) @tab @code{bisque}
@item (135, 206, 250) @tab @code{lightskyblue}
@tab  (250, 250, 210) @tab @code{lightgoldenrodyellow}
@item (240, 255, 240) @tab @code{honeydew}
@tab  (255, 248, 220) @tab @code{cornsilk}
@item (255, 218, 185) @tab @code{peachpuff}
@tab  (245, 245, 245) @tab @code{whitesmoke}
@item (255, @phantom{0}99, @phantom{0}71) @tab @code{tomato}
@tab  (112, 128, 144) @tab @code{slategrey}
@item (255, 105, 180) @tab @code{hotpink}
@tab  (253, 245, 230) @tab @code{oldlace}
@item (255, 235, 205) @tab @code{blanchedalmond}
@tab  (189, 183, 107) @tab @code{darkkhaki}
@item (255, 228, 181) @tab @code{moccasin}
@tab  (@phantom{00}0, 206, 209) @tab @code{darkturquoise}
@item (@phantom{0}60, 179, 113) @tab @code{mediumseagreen}
@tab  (199, @phantom{0}21, 133) @tab @code{mediumvioletred}
@item (238, 130, 238) @tab @code{violet}
@tab  (173, 255, @phantom{0}47) @tab @code{greenyellow}
@item (255, 239, 213) @tab @code{papayawhip}
@tab  (143, 188, 143) @tab @code{darkseagreen}
@item (188, 143, 143) @tab @code{rosybrown}
@tab  (255, @phantom{0}20, 147) @tab @code{deeppink}
@item (139, @phantom{0}69, @phantom{0}19) @tab @code{saddlebrown}
@tab  (148, @phantom{00}0, 211) @tab @code{darkviolet}
@item (@phantom{0}30, 144, 255) @tab @code{dodgerblue}
@tab  (119, 136, 153) @tab @code{lightslategrey}
@item (222, 184, 135) @tab @code{burlywood}
@tab  (255, 222, 173) @tab @code{navajowhite}
@item (250, 240, 230) @tab @code{linen}
@tab  (123, 104, 238) @tab @code{mediumslateblue}
@item (@phantom{0}64, 224, 208) @tab @code{turquoise}
@tab  (135, 206, 235) @tab @code{skyblue}
@item (@phantom{0}72, 209, 204) @tab @code{mediumturquoise}
@tab  (245, 245, 220) @tab @code{beige}
@item (255, 228, 225) @tab @code{mistyrose}
@tab  (210, 180, 140) @tab @code{tan}
@item (250, 235, 215) @tab @code{antiquewhite}
@tab  (216, 191, 216) @tab @code{thistle}
@item (@phantom{0}50, 205, @phantom{0}50) @tab @code{limegreen}
@tab  (233, 150, 122) @tab @code{darksalmon}
@item (176, 196, 222) @tab @code{lightsteelblue}
@tab  (@phantom{0}65, 105, 225) @tab @code{royalblue}
@item (152, 251, 152) @tab @code{palegreen}
@tab  (220, @phantom{0}20, @phantom{0}60) @tab @code{crimson}
@item (245, 222, 179) @tab @code{wheat}
@tab  (186, @phantom{0}85, 211) @tab @code{mediumorchid}
@item (230, 230, 250) @tab @code{lavender}
@tab  (240, 230, 140) @tab @code{khaki}
@item (144, 238, 144) @tab @code{lightgreen}
@tab  (175, 238, 238) @tab @code{paleturquoise}
@item (@phantom{0}47, @phantom{0}79, @phantom{0}79) @tab @code{darkslategrey}
@tab  (153, @phantom{0}50, 204) @tab @code{darkorchid}
@item (@phantom{0}46, 139, @phantom{0}87) @tab @code{seagreen}
@tab  (154, 205, @phantom{0}50) @tab @code{yellowgreen}
@item (138, @phantom{0}43, 226) @tab @code{blueviolet}
@tab  (219, 112, 147) @tab @code{palevioletred}
@item (107, 142, @phantom{0}35) @tab @code{olivedrab}
@tab  (147, 112, 219) @tab @code{mediumpurple}
@item (244, 164, @phantom{0}96) @tab @code{sandybrown}
@tab  (@phantom{0}85, 107, @phantom{0}47) @tab @code{darkolivegreen}
@item (102, 205, 170) @tab @code{mediumaquamarine}
@tab  (106, @phantom{0}90, 205) @tab @code{slateblue}
@item (238, 232, 170) @tab @code{palegoldenrod}
@tab  (@phantom{0}34, 139, @phantom{0}34) @tab @code{forestgreen}
@item (@phantom{0}25, @phantom{0}25, 112) @tab @code{midnightblue}
@tab  (@phantom{0}32, 178, 170) @tab @code{lightseagreen}
@item (211, 211, 211) @tab @code{lightgrey}
@tab  (218, 112, 214) @tab @code{orchid}
@item (100, 149, 237) @tab @code{cornflowerblue}
@tab  (160, @phantom{0}82, @phantom{0}45) @tab @code{sienna}
@item (178, @phantom{0}34, @phantom{0}34) @tab @code{firebrick}
@tab  (176, 224, 230) @tab @code{powderblue}
@item (205, @phantom{0}92, @phantom{0}92) @tab @code{indianred}
@tab  (105, 105, 105) @tab @code{dimgrey}
@item (173, 216, 230) @tab @code{lightblue}
@tab  (210, 105, @phantom{0}30) @tab @code{chocolate}
@item (165, @phantom{0}42, @phantom{0}42) @tab @code{brown}
@tab  (218, 165, @phantom{0}32) @tab @code{goldenrod}
@item (220, 220, 220) @tab @code{gainsboro}
@tab  (221, 160, 221) @tab @code{plum}
@item (@phantom{0}95, 158, 160) @tab @code{cadetblue}
@end multitable
@end iftex

@ifinfo
@multitable @columnfractions 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25
@item (@ @ 0, @ @ 0, @ @ 0) @tab @code{black}
@tab  (255, @ @ 0, @ @ 0) @tab @code{red}
@item (@ @ 0, 255, @ @ 0) @tab @code{green}
@tab  (@ @ 0, @ @ 0, 255) @tab @code{blue}
@item (255, 255, @ @ 0) @tab @code{yellow}
@tab  (255, @ @ 0, 255) @tab @code{magenta}
@item (@ @ 0, 255, 255) @tab @code{cyan}
@tab  (255, 255, 255) @tab @code{white}
@item (128, @ @ 0, @ @ 0) @tab @code{maroon}
@tab  (@ @ 0, @ @ 0, 128) @tab @code{navy}
@item (127, 255, @ @ 0) @tab @code{chartreuse}
@tab  (@ @ 0, 255, 127) @tab @code{springgreen}
@item (128, 128, @ @ 0) @tab @code{olive}
@tab  (128, @ @ 0, 128) @tab @code{purple}
@item (@ @ 0, 128, 128) @tab @code{teal}
@tab  (128, 128, 128) @tab @code{grey}
@item (@ @ 0, 191, 255) @tab @code{deepskyblue}
@tab  (124, 252, @ @ 0) @tab @code{lawngreen}
@item (@ 64, @ 64, @ 64) @tab @code{darkgrey}
@tab  (255, @ 69, @ @ 0) @tab @code{orangered}
@item (192, 192, 192) @tab @code{silver}
@tab  (255, 250, 250) @tab @code{snow}
@item (139, @ @ 0, @ @ 0) @tab @code{darkred}
@tab  (@ @ 0, @ @ 0, 139) @tab @code{darkblue}
@item (255, 140, @ @ 0) @tab @code{darkorange}
@tab  (240, 255, 255) @tab @code{azure}
@item (248, 248, 255) @tab @code{ghostwhite}
@tab  (255, 255, 240) @tab @code{ivory}
@item (@ @ 0, @ @ 0, 205) @tab @code{mediumblue}
@tab  (255, 182, 193) @tab @code{lightpink}
@item (245, 255, 250) @tab @code{mintcream}
@tab  (@ 75, @ @ 0, 130) @tab @code{indigo}
@item (240, 128, 128) @tab @code{lightcoral}
@tab  (255, 192, 203) @tab @code{pink}
@item (255, 127, @ 80) @tab @code{coral}
@tab  (250, 128, 114) @tab @code{salmon}
@item (255, 250, 240) @tab @code{floralwhite}
@tab  (127, 255, 212) @tab @code{aquamarine}
@item (255, 250, 205) @tab @code{lemonchiffon}
@tab  (255, 215, @ @ 0) @tab @code{gold}
@item (@ @ 0, 100, @ @ 0) @tab @code{darkgreen}
@tab  (255, 165, @ @ 0) @tab @code{orange}
@item (240, 248, 255) @tab @code{aliceblue}
@tab  (224, 255, 255) @tab @code{lightcyan}
@item (255, 255, 224) @tab @code{lightyellow}
@tab  (139, @ @ 0, 139) @tab @code{darkmagenta}
@item (@ @ 0, 139, 139) @tab @code{darkcyan}
@tab  (205, 133, @ 63) @tab @code{peru}
@item (@ 70, 130, 180) @tab @code{steelblue}
@tab  (255, 240, 245) @tab @code{lavenderblush}
@item (255, 245, 238) @tab @code{seashell}
@tab  (@ @ 0, 250, 154) @tab @code{mediumspringgreen}
@item (@ 72, @ 61, 139) @tab @code{darkslateblue}
@tab  (184, 134, @ 11) @tab @code{darkgoldenrod}
@item (255, 160, 122) @tab @code{lightsalmon}
@tab  (255, 228, 196) @tab @code{bisque}
@item (135, 206, 250) @tab @code{lightskyblue}
@tab  (250, 250, 210) @tab @code{lightgoldenrodyellow}
@item (240, 255, 240) @tab @code{honeydew}
@tab  (255, 248, 220) @tab @code{cornsilk}
@item (255, 218, 185) @tab @code{peachpuff}
@tab  (245, 245, 245) @tab @code{whitesmoke}
@item (255, @ 99, @ 71) @tab @code{tomato}
@tab  (112, 128, 144) @tab @code{slategrey}
@item (255, 105, 180) @tab @code{hotpink}
@tab  (253, 245, 230) @tab @code{oldlace}
@item (255, 235, 205) @tab @code{blanchedalmond}
@tab  (189, 183, 107) @tab @code{darkkhaki}
@item (255, 228, 181) @tab @code{moccasin}
@tab  (@ @ 0, 206, 209) @tab @code{darkturquoise}
@item (@ 60, 179, 113) @tab @code{mediumseagreen}
@tab  (199, @ 21, 133) @tab @code{mediumvioletred}
@item (238, 130, 238) @tab @code{violet}
@tab  (173, 255, @ 47) @tab @code{greenyellow}
@item (255, 239, 213) @tab @code{papayawhip}
@tab  (143, 188, 143) @tab @code{darkseagreen}
@item (188, 143, 143) @tab @code{rosybrown}
@tab  (255, @ 20, 147) @tab @code{deeppink}
@item (139, @ 69, @ 19) @tab @code{saddlebrown}
@tab  (148, @ @ 0, 211) @tab @code{darkviolet}
@item (@ 30, 144, 255) @tab @code{dodgerblue}
@tab  (119, 136, 153) @tab @code{lightslategrey}
@item (222, 184, 135) @tab @code{burlywood}
@tab  (255, 222, 173) @tab @code{navajowhite}
@item (250, 240, 230) @tab @code{linen}
@tab  (123, 104, 238) @tab @code{mediumslateblue}
@item (@ 64, 224, 208) @tab @code{turquoise}
@tab  (135, 206, 235) @tab @code{skyblue}
@item (@ 72, 209, 204) @tab @code{mediumturquoise}
@tab  (245, 245, 220) @tab @code{beige}
@item (255, 228, 225) @tab @code{mistyrose}
@tab  (210, 180, 140) @tab @code{tan}
@item (250, 235, 215) @tab @code{antiquewhite}
@tab  (216, 191, 216) @tab @code{thistle}
@item (@ 50, 205, @ 50) @tab @code{limegreen}
@tab  (233, 150, 122) @tab @code{darksalmon}
@item (176, 196, 222) @tab @code{lightsteelblue}
@tab  (@ 65, 105, 225) @tab @code{royalblue}
@item (152, 251, 152) @tab @code{palegreen}
@tab  (220, @ 20, @ 60) @tab @code{crimson}
@item (245, 222, 179) @tab @code{wheat}
@tab  (186, @ 85, 211) @tab @code{mediumorchid}
@item (230, 230, 250) @tab @code{lavender}
@tab  (240, 230, 140) @tab @code{khaki}
@item (144, 238, 144) @tab @code{lightgreen}
@tab  (175, 238, 238) @tab @code{paleturquoise}
@item (@ 47, @ 79, @ 79) @tab @code{darkslategrey}
@tab  (153, @ 50, 204) @tab @code{darkorchid}
@item (@ 46, 139, @ 87) @tab @code{seagreen}
@tab  (154, 205, @ 50) @tab @code{yellowgreen}
@item (138, @ 43, 226) @tab @code{blueviolet}
@tab  (219, 112, 147) @tab @code{palevioletred}
@item (107, 142, @ 35) @tab @code{olivedrab}
@tab  (147, 112, 219) @tab @code{mediumpurple}
@item (244, 164, @ 96) @tab @code{sandybrown}
@tab  (@ 85, 107, @ 47) @tab @code{darkolivegreen}
@item (102, 205, 170) @tab @code{mediumaquamarine}
@tab  (106, @ 90, 205) @tab @code{slateblue}
@item (238, 232, 170) @tab @code{palegoldenrod}
@tab  (@ 34, 139, @ 34) @tab @code{forestgreen}
@item (@ 25, @ 25, 112) @tab @code{midnightblue}
@tab  (@ 32, 178, 170) @tab @code{lightseagreen}
@item (211, 211, 211) @tab @code{lightgrey}
@tab  (218, 112, 214) @tab @code{orchid}
@item (100, 149, 237) @tab @code{cornflowerblue}
@tab  (160, @ 82, @ 45) @tab @code{sienna}
@item (178, @ 34, @ 34) @tab @code{firebrick}
@tab  (176, 224, 230) @tab @code{powderblue}
@item (205, @ 92, @ 92) @tab @code{indianred}
@tab  (105, 105, 105) @tab @code{dimgrey}
@item (173, 216, 230) @tab @code{lightblue}
@tab  (210, 105, @ 30) @tab @code{chocolate}
@item (165, @ 42, @ 42) @tab @code{brown}
@tab  (218, 165, @ 32) @tab @code{goldenrod}
@item (220, 220, 220) @tab @code{gainsboro}
@tab  (221, 160, 221) @tab @code{plum}
@item (@ 95, 158, 160) @tab @code{cadetblue}
@end multitable
@end ifinfo

The default colour palette (used for options @option{-datacellcol},
@option{-dataelt3dcol}, etc.) is defined from the above colour list,
by excluding colours of brightness below 0.2 and above 0.8.  The
brightness is defined as the average of the channel values divided by
255.  The resulting list of colours is:
@code{red}, @code{green}, @code{blue}, @code{yellow}, @code{magenta},
@code{cyan}, @code{chartreuse}, @code{springgreen}, @code{olive},
@code{purple}, @code{teal}, @code{grey}, @code{deepskyblue},
@code{lawngreen}, @code{darkgrey}, @code{orangered}, @code{silver},
@code{darkorange}, @code{mediumblue}, @code{indigo}, @code{lightcoral},
@code{coral}, @code{salmon}, @code{aquamarine}, @code{gold},
@code{orange}, @code{darkmagenta}, @code{darkcyan}, @code{peru},
@code{steelblue}, @code{mediumspringgreen}, @code{darkslateblue},
@code{darkgoldenrod}, @code{lightsalmon}, @code{lightskyblue},
@code{tomato}, @code{slategrey}, @code{hotpink}, @code{darkkhaki},
@code{darkturquoise}, @code{mediumseagreen}, @code{mediumvioletred},
@code{violet}, @code{greenyellow}, @code{darkseagreen},
@code{rosybrown}, @code{deeppink}, @code{saddlebrown},
@code{darkviolet}, @code{dodgerblue}, @code{lightslategrey},
@code{burlywood}, @code{mediumslateblue}, @code{turquoise},
@code{skyblue}, @code{mediumturquoise}, @code{tan}, @code{limegreen},
@code{darksalmon}, @code{lightsteelblue}, @code{royalblue},
@code{palegreen}, @code{crimson}, @code{mediumorchid}, @code{khaki},
@code{lightgreen}, @code{darkslategrey}, @code{darkorchid},
@code{seagreen}, @code{yellowgreen}, @code{blueviolet},
@code{palevioletred}, @code{olivedrab}, @code{mediumpurple},
@code{sandybrown}, @code{darkolivegreen}, @code{mediumaquamarine},
@code{slateblue}, @code{forestgreen}, @code{midnightblue},
@code{lightseagreen}, @code{orchid}, @code{cornflowerblue},
@code{sienna}, @code{firebrick}, @code{indianred}, @code{dimgrey},
@code{chocolate}, @code{brown}, @code{goldenrod}, @code{plum} and
@code{cadetblue}.
