@c This file is part of the Neper software package.
@c Copyright (C) 2003-2019 Romain Quey
@c See the COPYING file in the top-level directory.

@node Tessellation Module (-T)
@chapter Tessellation Module (-T)

@MT{} generates @dfn{tessellations} and @dfn{multiscale tessellations}
of a bounded @dfn{domain} of space, in 2D or 3D.  The domain must be convex,
but once generated the tessellation can be cut by various shapes, e.g.@ to
include a notch (experimental feature).
Periodicity and
semi-periodicity conditions can be prescribed.  @MT{} also enables to
@dfn{regularize} the tessellations for better-quality meshing. The
tessellations are provided in scalar (vectorial) or raster formats.
@MT{} also generates crystal orientations for the tessellation cells.

@dfn{Tessellations} can be generated from various types of
morphological cell properties (option @option{-morpho}).  Several
predefined properties are available, such as those obtained by grain
growth in metals (which are described by cell size and sphericity
distributions). Custom properties can be specified using various
metrics, including the size, the sphericity, the centroid
or even the actual shape (using a raster tessellation), in terms
of either distributions (when applicable) or individual cell values.
Global morphological properties, such as a cell aspect ratio or a
columnar axis, can also be specified.
The generated @dfn{tessellations} are Laguerre (or Voronoi)
tessellations whose seed attributes are set by optimization to
obtain the desired cell properties.  Of course, it is also possible to
generate standard tessellations (e.g.@ Poisson-Voronoi or regular
tessellations).

@dfn{Multiscale tessellations} are characterized by the subdivision of
the cells of a primary tessellation into secondary tessellations (and so
on) and are obtained by combining into one, using the
@w{@samp{@SEPFRAC{}} separator}, the option arguments that apply at the
successive scales.  The same value can be used for defining the
tessellations at a given scale, or different values can be loaded using
@samp{msfile(@var{filename})}, where @file{@var{filename}} is a @dfn{multiscale
cell file} (@pxref{Multiscale Cell File}).@footnote{As of version 3.5.0,
@samp{msfile(@var{filename})} should be preferred over
@samp{file(@var{filename})} to load a multiscale cell file.}
So, all capabilities available for generating a standard (single-scale)
tessellations are available for generating the tessellations at the different
scales of a multiscale tessellation.  Examples are provided in the following.

The @dfn{domain} of space in which the tessellation is created can be of
any convex shape. In 3D, cuboidal, cylindrical and spherical shapes (and a few
other, exotic shapes) are directly supported while other morphologies can
be defined from a set of planes (@w{option @option{-domain}}).
Non convex domain shapes can be obtained by cutting the tessellation
by different geometrical primitives once generated
(@w{option @option{-tranform cut}}, experimental).@footnote{Only non-convexities larger than
the typical cell size are supported.}
Periodicity or semi-periodicity conditions can be applied to the tessellation
(@w{option @option{-periodicity}}).

@dfn{Crystal orientations} can be randomly distributed (according to a
uniform frequency distribution), either in the 3D space or along a specific
orientation fibre, or uniformly distributed (option @option{-ori}).
Uniform crystal orientation distributions ensure that all possible
crystal orientations are equally represented (no orientation clustering).
Crystal orientations can be provided according to different descriptors (option
@option{-oridescriptor}).

@dfn{Regularization} can be applied to the tessellations and consists in
removing their small edges and faces (option @option{-regularization})
which would otherwise be detrimental to good-quality meshing with
@mM{} (@pxref{Meshing Module (-M)}).  It it not available for periodic
tessellations yet.

@dfn{Output files} describe the tessellation either at the scalar
format @file{.tess} or at the raster format @file{.tesr} (@pxref{File
Formats}).  Both are input files of @mM{} (@pxref{Meshing Module (-M)})
and @mV{} (@pxref{Visualization Module (-V)}).  Third-party software
file formats are also available.

@sp 1
Here is what a typical run of @mT{} looks like,

@sp 1
@c typical_start
@verbatim
    $ neper -T -n 10 -id 1 -reg 1
    ========================    N   e   p   e   r    =======================
    Info   : A software package for polycrystal generation and meshing.
    Info   : Version 3.5.0
    Info   : Built with: gsl nlopt muparser
    Info   : <http://neper.info> <http://neper.info/community>
    Info   : Copyright (C) 2003-2019, and GNU GPL'd, by Romain Quey.
    Info   : Loading initialization file `/home/rquey/.neperrc'...
    Info   : ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Info   : MODULE  -T loaded with arguments:
    Info   : [ini file]
    Info   : [com line] -n 10 -id 1 -morpho gg -reg 1
    Info   : ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Info   : Reading input data...
    Info   : Creating domain...
    Info   : Creating tessellation...
    Info   :   - Running tessellation...
    Info   :     > Entering optimization...
    Info   :     > Setting seeds... 100%
    Info   :     > Initial solution: f   =3.623581896
    Info   :     > Iteration   2864: fmin=0.077875850 f=0.077875946
    Info   :     > Reached `reps' criterion.
    Info   : Regularizing tessellation...
    Info   :   - loop 1/2: 100% del=2
    Info   : Writing tessellation...
    Info   :     [o] Writing file `n10-id1.tess'...
    Info   :     [o] Wrote file `n10-id1.tess'.
    Info   : Elapsed time: 3.333 secs.
    ========================================================================
@end verbatim
@c typical_end

@section Arguments

@subsection Input Data

@kindex -n
@inp{-n, integer or char_string,
Specify the number of cells of the tessellation.
The argument can be an integer@comma{} an expression based on the tessellation cell variables (@pxref{Tessellation Keys})@comma{} or @samp{from_morpho} to set the value from
the morphology (see @option{-morpho}).
, any, none}

@kindex -id
@inp{-id, integer,
Specify the identifier of the tessellation. It defines the seed used by the random
number generator to compute the (initial) seed positions.
,
any, 1}

@opt{-dim, integer,
Specify the dimension of the tessellation.
,
2 or 3, 3}

@opt{-domain, char_string,
Specify the domain morphology.
In 3D@comma{} for a cuboidal shape@comma{}
provide @samp{cube(@var{size_x},@var{size_y},@var{size_z})}@comma{}
for a cylindrical shape@comma{} provide
@samp{cylinder(@var{height},@var{diameter})}@comma{}
and for a spherical shape@comma{} provide
@samp{sphere(@var{diameter})}.
In 2D@comma{} for a rectangular shape@comma{} provide
@samp{square(@var{size_x},@var{size_y})} and for a
circular shape@comma{} provide @samp{circle(@var{diameter})}.
To specify the number of
facets@comma{} @code{@var{facet_nb}}@comma{}
of a circle@comma{} cylinder or sphere domain@comma{} use
@samp{circle(@var{diameter},@var{facet_nb})}@comma{}
@samp{cylinder(@var{height},@var{diameter},@var{facet_nb})}
or @samp{sphere(@var{diameter},@var{facet_nb})}.
For a Rodrigues space fundamental region@comma{}
provide @samp{rodrigues(@var{crysym})}@comma{}
where @code{@var{crysym}} is the crystal symmetry (see @ref{Crystal Symmetries}).
For a standard stereographic triangle@comma{}
provide @samp{stdtriangle(@var{segment_nb})}@comma{}
where @code{@var{segment_nb}} is the number of segments on the [011]--[111] line.
For an arbitrary convex 3D shape@comma{}
provide @samp{planes(@var{file_name})}@comma{}
where @code{@var{file_name}} is the name of a file containing the
total number of planes then@comma{} for each plane@comma{} the
4 parameters of its equation (@math{d}@comma{} @math{a}@comma{} @math{b}
and @math{c}@comma{} for an equation of the form @math{a@,x+b@,y+c@,z=d}). The
plane normal@comma{} @math{(a,@,b,@,c)}@comma{} must be an outgoing
vector of the domain.
For a tessellation cell@comma{} provide
@samp{cell(@var{file_name}@comma{}@var{cell_id})}@comma{} where
@code{@var{file_name}} is the name of the tessellation file and
@code{@var{cell_id}} is the cell identifier.
To transform the domain@comma{} append
a transformation to the domain name using the @samp{@SEPDEP{}}
separator.  Available transformations are:
@samp{rotate(@var{axis_x}@comma{}@var{axis_y}@comma{}@var{axis_z}@comma{}@var{angle})}
for a rotation of angle @var{angle} about axis
@math{(@var{axis_x}@comma{} @var{axis_y} @comma{}@var{axis_z})}@comma{}
@samp{scale(@var{x_factor}@comma{}@var{y_factor}@comma{}@var{z_factor})}
for scaling@comma{}
@samp{translate(@var{x_delta}@comma{}@var{y_delta}@comma{}@var{z_delta})}
for a translation and @samp{split(@var{dir})} for splitting the domain
in half along direction @samp{@var{dir}} (@samp{@var{x}}@comma{}
@samp{@var{y}} or @samp{@var{z}})@comma{} which can be used to apply
symmetries.  For a 2D tessellation@comma{} the axis parameters can be omitted
in @samp{rotate} (default @math{(0@comma{} 0@comma{} 1)})@comma{}
and the @math{z} component can be omitted in @samp{scale} (default 1) and
@samp{translate} (default 0).  An example is
@samp{@code{sphere(1@comma{}100)@SEPDEP{}translate(-0.5@comma{}-0.5@comma{}-0.5)@SEPDEP{}scale(0.5@comma{}1@comma{}2)}}.
, see above list, cube(1@comma{}1@comma{}1) in 3D and
square(1@comma{}1) in 2D}

@opt{-periodicity, char_string,
Specify the periodicity conditions that apply to the domain (and
therefore to the tessellation).  Provide as argument @samp{0} (or
@samp{none}) for no periodicity@comma{} @samp{1} (or @samp{all}) for full
periodicity@comma{} or a list of periodicity directions (among
@samp{x}@comma{} @samp{y} and @samp{z}) combined with @samp{@SEPNODEP{}}
for semi-periodicity.
,
see above list, 0}

Is it also possible to load a tessellation or a raster tessellation from a file,

@kindex -loadtess
@inp{-loadtess, file_name,
Load a tessellation from a file.  Provide as argument the file name.
,
any, none}

@kindex -loadtesr
@inp{-loadtesr, file_name,
Load a raster tessellation from a file.  Provide as argument the file name.
To load only a subregion of a raster tessellation@comma{} use the
syntax
@samp{@var{file_name}:crop(@var{xmin},@var{xmax},@var{ymin},@var{ymax},@var{zmin},@var{zmax})}@comma{}
where
@code{@var{xmin}}@comma{} @code{@var{xmax}}@comma{}
@code{@var{ymin}}@comma{} @code{@var{ymax}}@comma{}
@code{@var{zmin}} and @code{@var{zmax}} are the minimum and maximum positions along
@code{@var{x}}@comma{} @code{@var{y}} and @code{@var{z}}@comma{} respectively.
For 2D raster tessellations@comma{} the @code{@var{z}} values can be omitted.
To scale the number of voxels of a raster tessellation@comma{} use the syntax
@samp{@var{file_name}:rasterscale(@var{factor})}@comma{}
where @code{@var{factor}} is the
scaling factor@comma{} or
@samp{@var{file_name}:scale(@var{factor_x},@var{factor_y},@var{factor_z})}@comma{}
where @code{@var{factor_x}}@comma{} @code{@var{factor_y}} and
@code{@var{factor_z}} are the
scaling factor along @var{x}@comma{} @var{y} and @var{z}@comma{}
respectively.
For 2D raster tessellations@comma{} the @code{@var{z}} value can be omitted.
,
any, none}

Finally, it is possible to load a set of points.  These points are used
only for statistics, in option @option{-statpoint}; they are not
seed points of the tessellation (see option @option{-morphooptiini}
    instead).

@kindex -loadpoint
@inp{-loadpoint, file_name,
Load points from a file.
See @ref{Position File} for the file format.
Provide as argument the file name.
,
any, none}

@subsection Morphology Options

These options can be used to set the cell morphology.  If you want to
set seeds attributes instead, use @samp{@option{-morphooptiini ...
  -morpho voronoi}}.

@opt{-morpho, char_string,
Specify morphological properties of the cells.
It can be done either by using a special morphology string (as defined
below)@comma{} or by specifying custom cell properties such as sizes@comma{}
sphericities@comma{} centroids@comma{} or even exact shapes (using a raster
tessellation). Global properties (sometimes refered to as @dfn{morphological
texture}) can be added.  Alternatively@comma{} a complete tessellation can also
be loaded (as a tessellation file).
@*
@emph{(i)} The special morphology strings are the following (mutually-exclusive):@*
@bullet{} @samp{@code{voronoi}} for a standard Poisson-Voronoi
tessellation;@*
@bullet{} @samp{@code{graingrowth}} or @samp{@code{gg}} for
grain-growth statistical properties@comma{} which correspond to a wider grain size
distribution and higher grain sphericities than in a Voronoi tessellation
(it actually is an alias for
@samp{@code{diameq:lognormal(1,0.35),1-sphericity:lognormal(0.145,0.03)}}@comma{}
@w{see below}); the @samp{@code{graingrowth(@var{mean})}} and
@samp{@code{gg}(@var{mean})} variants can be used to provide an absolute
mean grain size@comma{} @code{@var{mean}} (in which case @option{-n
from_morpho} must be used@comma{} see below);@*
@bullet{} @samp{@code{centroidal}} for a centroidal
tessellation@footnote{@code{centroidal} is not recommended as it does
not correspond to a morphological property @i{per se}; size and/or
sphericity properties should be used instead.}
(it actually is an alias for @samp{@code{centroid:seed}}@comma{} @w{see
below});@*
@bullet{} @samp{cube(@var{N})} / @samp{square(@var{N})} for a regular
tessellation into cubic / square cells@comma{}
where @samp{@var{N}} is the number of cells along a direction@comma{}
or @samp{cube(@var{N1@SEPNODEP{}N2@SEPNODEP{}N3})} /
@samp{square(@var{N1@SEPNODEP{}N2})} for a regular tessellation into
cubic / square cells@comma{} where @samp{@var{N1}}@comma{} @samp{@var{N2}}
and @samp{@var{N3}} are the number of cells along the different
directions;@*
@bullet{} @samp{tocta(@var{N})} for a regular
tessellation into truncated octahedra@comma{}
where @samp{@var{N}} is the number of cells along a direction;@*
@bullet{} @samp{lamellar(w=@var{w}@comma{}v=@var{v}@comma{}pos=@var{pos})} for a lamellar
morphology.  Argument @samp{w=@var{w}} is mandatory@comma{} and arguments
@samp{v=@var{v}} and @samp{pos=@var{pos}} are optional.
Argument @samp{@code{w=@var{w}}} enables
to specify the absolute lamella width @code{@var{w}}.  For specifying
several widths@comma{} combine them @w{with @samp{@SEPDEP}}.
Argument
@samp{@code{v=@var{v}}} enables to specify the lamella plane @w{normals
@code{@var{v}}}.  For randomly-distributed normals taken from a uniform
distribution@comma{} use @samp{random} (the default).  For a direction of space@comma{} use
@samp{(@var{dir_x}@comma{}@var{dir_y}@comma{}@var{dir_z})}@comma{}
where @math{(@var{dir_x}@comma{}@var{dir_y}@comma{}@var{dir_z})} is the
direction.
For a direction of the parent
crystal@comma{} use
@samp{crysdir(@var{crysdir_x}@comma{}@var{crysdir_y}@comma{}@var{crysdir_z})}@comma{}
where @math{(@var{crysdir_x}@comma{}@var{crysdir_y}@comma{}@var{crysdir_z})} is the
  crystal direction.
Argument @samp{@code{pos=@var{pos}}} enables
to specify the position of the lamellaes@comma{} @code{@var{pos}}.  It can be
@samp{@var{random}} for a random position (the default) or @samp{@var{start}}
for the first lamella starting (full-width) from the start point of the domain
(along direction @code{@var{dir}}).
In the case of a multiscale tessellation@comma{} multiscale cell files can be
provided as values of @samp{@var{w}}@comma{} @samp{@var{v}}@comma{} and
@samp{@var{pos}}@comma{} @pxref{Multiscale Cell File}.
@*
@emph{(ii)} Custom morphological properties can be defined
by providing as argument the cell
property and its value@comma{} combined with the @samp{@SEPDEP{}} separator.
The available properties are the following:@*
@bullet{} @samp{@code{size}} for the size (volume in 3D and area in 2D)
and @samp{@code{diameq}} for the equivalent diameter;@*
@bullet{} @samp{@code{sphericity}} for the sphericity and
@samp{@code{1-sphericity}} for 1 @math{-} the sphericity@footnote{The reason
behind the @samp{@code{1-sphericity}} variable is that, for a grain growth
microstructure, 1 @math{-} the sphericity follows a lognormal distribution; see
@cite{R.@ Quey and L.@ Renversade, Optimal polyhedral description of 3D
polycrystals: Method and application to statistical and synchrotron X-ray
diffraction data, Comput.@ Methods Appl.@ Mech.@ Engrg., vol.@ 330, pp.@
308-333, 2018}.}
@bullet{} @samp{@code{centroid}} for the centroid;@*
@bullet{} @samp{@code{centroidtol}} for the centroid with a tolerance ---
centroids with a tolerance higher than 1000 times the minimum tolerance are
disregarded;@*
@bullet{} @samp{@code{centroidsize}} for combined centroid and size@comma{}
and @samp{@code{centroiddiameq}} for combined centroid and equivalent
diameter;@*
@bullet{} @samp{@code{tesr}} for cells of a raster tessellation.@*
Sizes@comma{} diameqs and sphericities can be defined by statistical
distributions or on a per-cell basis@comma{} while centroids can be
defined only on a per-cell basis.
The list of available statistical distributions is provided in @ref{Mathematical and Logical Expressions}.
If the number of cells is defined (see option @option{-n})@comma{}
the size or diameq distribution is scaled to get the specified number of cells;
otherwise@comma{} i.e.@ @option{-n} is set to @samp{from_morpho}@comma{}
the number of cells is determined from the size or diameq distribution.
An interval of possible values can also be provided using @samp{interval(@var{min}@comma{}@var{max})}.
A unique value can be assigned to all cells using @samp{@var{value}}@comma{}
where @samp{@var{value}} is the value.
Cell-by-cell values can be provided using
@samp{file(@var{file_name})}@comma{} where @samp{@var{file_name}} is
the name of the file containing the cell values (@pxref{Position File}
for @samp{@code{centroid}}; add a tolerance to each position for @samp{@code{centroidtol}}).
For @samp{@code{centroid}}@comma{} provide @samp{seed} to get a
centroidal tessellation.
For @samp{@code{tesr}}@comma{} @samp{@var{file_name}} is the name of the
raster tessellation file. If @option{-n} is set to
@samp{from_morpho}@comma{} the number of cells is set to the number of
cells of the raster tessellation.
@*
@emph{(iii)} The global cell properties are the following (mutually-exclusive):
@*
@bullet{} @samp{@code{columnar(@var{dir})}} for a columnar morphology along
coordinate axis @samp{@var{dir}}@comma{} where @samp{@var{dir}} can be
@samp{@code{x}}@comma{} @samp{@code{y}} or @samp{@code{z}};
@*
@bullet{} @samp{@code{bamboo(@var{dir})}} for a bamboo morphology along
coordinate axis @samp{@var{dir}}@comma{} where @samp{@var{dir}} can be
@samp{@code{x}}@comma{} @samp{@code{y}} or @samp{@code{z}};
@*
@bullet{} @samp{@code{aspratio(@var{r1}@comma{}@var{r2}@comma{}@var{r3})}}@comma{}
where @samp{@var{r1}}@comma{} @samp{@var{r1}} and @samp{@var{r3}} represents
relative length along the coordinate axes. For a 2D tessellation@comma{}
@samp{@var{r3}} can be omitted.  When provided@comma{} other
properties@comma{} such as the equivalent diameter or the sphericity@comma{}
are considered to apply to the cells as if they had no aspect ratio.
@*
@emph{(iv)} A tessellation can be loaded using @samp{@code{file(@var{file_name})}}@comma{}
where @samp{@var{file_name}} is the name of the tessellation file.
@*
To specify several properties@comma{} combine them @w{with @samp{@SEPNODEP}}
(centroids and sizes/equivalent diameters should be seen as one
 property and specified with @code{centroidsize}/@code{centroiddiameq}).
,
any, voronoi}

@c @bullet{} a Donaich distribution@comma{}@*@samp{donaich(@var{mean},@var{sigma}@{,@var{gamma},@var{fromin},@var{toin},@var{fromtype},@var{totype}@})}@comma{}@*default is @var{gamma} @math{=} @var{sigma}@*

@opt{-morphooptiini, char_string,
Specify the initial positions and/or weights of the
seeds.  The general form of the argument is
@samp{coo:@var{coo_char_string}@comma{}weight:@var{weight_char_string}}@comma{}
but it is also possible to read the seeds of a tessellation file (provide its
name as argument).  Different values of @samp{@var{coo_char_string}} and
@samp{@var{weight_char_string}} are available@comma{} depending on the value of
option @option{-morpho}:@*
@bullet{} @samp{@var{weight_char_string}} can be a real value@comma{} any
mathematical expression based on variables @samp{@code{radeq}} and
@samp{@code{diameq}} (@pxref{Tessellation Keys}) and their average
values@comma{} @samp{@code{avradeq}} and @samp{@code{avdiameq}}@comma{}
respectively@comma{}
or @samp{file(@var{file_name})} to load values from a file.
The default depends on the value of option @samp{@option{-morpho}}:
for @samp{@code{voronoi}}@comma{} it is @samp{0}@comma{}
for a cell-size statistical distribution@comma{} it is @samp{avradeq}@comma{}
and for cell-based size values (including @code{-morpho tesr})
@comma{} it is @samp{radeq}.
@*
@bullet{} @samp{@var{coo_char_string}} can be @samp{random} for random
positions@comma{} @samp{packing} for positions set by (rough) dense
sphere packing using the weights as sphere radii@comma{}
@samp{@code{centroid}} for cell centroids@comma{}
@samp{@code{LLLFP2011}} for Lyckegaard et al.'s
method@footnote{A.@ Lyckegaard@comma{} E.M.@ Lauridsen@comma{} W.@
  Ludwig@comma{} R.W.@ Fonda@comma{}
and H.F.@ Poulsen. On the Use of Laguerre Tessellations for
Representations of 3D Grain Structures.  Advanced Engineering
Materials@comma{} vol.@ 13, pp.@ 165--170@comma{} 2011.}@comma{}
or @samp{file(@var{file_name})} to load values from a file (@pxref{Position File}).
The default depends on the value of option @samp{@option{-morpho}}:
for @samp{@code{voronoi}}@comma{} it is @samp{random}@comma{}
for a cell-size statistical distribution@comma{} it is @samp{none}@comma{}
and for cell-based coordinate values
(including @code{-morpho tesr})@comma{} it is @samp{centroid}.@*
It is also possible to provide a tessellation file in
@samp{file(@var{file_name})} (from which seed coordinates or weights are read).
,
see above list, default}

@c @optnrc{-morphooptimultiseed, integer,
@c Specify the number of seeds used to generate a cell.@*
@c For @samp{@code{-morpho size}}@comma{} the argument can be a
@c mathematical expression based on the @code{@var{radeq}} and
@c @code{@var{avradeq}} (or @code{@var{diameq}} and @code{@var{avdiameq}})
@c parameters.@*
@c For @samp{@code{-morpho tesr}}@comma{} the argument
@c can be a mathematical expression based on the variables provided in
@c @ref{Raster Tessellation Keys}.@*
@c Individual cell values can be provided
@c using @samp{file(@var{file_name})}@comma{} where @var{file_name} is the
@c name of a file containing the successive cell values.
@c ,
@c any >= 1, 1}

@optsec{-morphooptiobjective, char_string,
Specify the objective function.  The argument should be of the form
@samp{@var{prop1}@SEPDEP{}@var{objective_function1}@SEPNODEP{}@var{prop2}@SEPDEP{}@var{objective_function2}@SEPNODEP{}...}@comma{}
where @code{@var{propx}} are properties as defined in option
@option{-morpho}@comma{} and @code{@var{objective_functionx}} are their
objective functions.
An objective function depends on the property and its definition.
@*
@mybullet For properties defined by a statistical distribution (which can be
@samp{size}@comma{} @samp{diameq} or @samp{sphericity})@comma{}
the available values are @samp{chi2} (Chi-square test)@comma{} @samp{ks}
(Kolmogorov-Smirnov test)@comma{} @samp{kuiper} (Kuiper's test)@comma{}
@samp{cmv} (Cram@'er-Von Mises test)@comma{} @samp{ad} (Anderson-Darling
test)@comma{}
@samp{FL2} (L@math{^2}-norm on @math{F})@comma{}
@samp{FL2w} (weighted L@math{^2}-norm
on @math{F})
@footnote{@cite{R.@ Quey and L.@ Renversade, Optimal polyhedral description of 3D
polycrystals: Method and application to statistical and synchrotron X-ray
diffraction data, Comput.@ Methods Appl.@ Mech.@ Engrg., vol.@ 330, pp.@
308-333, 2018}.}@comma{}
@samp{FL2wu} (weighted L@math{^2}-norm
on @math{F} corresponding to @samp{FL2w} for a unimodal distribution)@comma{}
and the default value is @samp{FL2w}.
@*
@mybullet For @samp{@code{centroid}}@comma{} a Minkowski distance
between the seeds and centroids is used@comma{} and can be
@samp{@code{L1}}@comma{} @samp{@code{L2}} or @samp{@code{Linf}}.
@*
@mybullet For @samp{@code{tesr}}@comma{} the definition of the
objective function includes several factors.
First@comma{} preprocessing operations to the raster tessellation can be
applied using @samp{@code{transform(@var{operations})}}@comma{} where
@samp{@var{operations}} can include @samp{scale} to scale the tessellation to
correct for a global cell elongation or @samp{rasterscale} to scale the raster
itself to correct for a global voxel elongation (which may result from
operation @samp{scale}); combine with @samp{@SEPNODEP}.
Second@comma{} control points can be defined using
@samp{@code{pts(@var{args})}} where @samp{@code{args}} can include
@samp{region=@var{region}} where @samp{@var{region}} can be @samp{@code{surf}}
for surface voxels or @samp{@code{all}} for all voxels@comma{} and
@samp{res=@var{res}} where @samp{@var{res}} is the resolution@comma{}
i.e.@ the average number of control points along a direction of a grain;
combine with @samp{@SEPNODEP}.
Third@comma{} the expression of the objective function @i{per se} can be
specified using @samp{val(@var{expr})}@comma{} where @samp{@var{expr}} can be
@samp{bounddist} for minimizing the distance between the raster tessellation
and tessellation cell boundaries@comma{} or @samp{intervol} for maximizing
the volume intersection between the raster tessellation and tessellation
(both provide similar results).  To define the objective
function@comma{} combine the above factors using @samp{+}.
The default value is @samp{pts(region=surf,res=5)+val(bounddist)}.
It is finally possible to define how the different parts of
the objective function are combined into the objective function (in the case
where several properties are specified)@comma{}
using @samp{general:@var{objective_function}}@comma{} where
@samp{@var{objective_function}} can be @samp{L1}@comma{} @samp{L2} or
@samp{Linf}; the default is @samp{L2}.
,
any, default}

@optsec{-morphooptidof, char_string,
Specify the degrees of freedom. The available values are
@samp{x}@comma{} @samp{y} and @samp{z} for the 3 coordinates@comma{}
and @samp{w} for the weights. Combine with @samp{@SEPNODEP}.
,
see above list, x@SEPNODEP{}y@SEPNODEP{}z@SEPNODEP{}w}

@optsec{-morphooptistop, char_string,
Specify the stopping criteria of the optimization process.
Note that you do not have to define all criteria; in most cases@comma{}
only one or two are needed.
A stopping expression must be of the form @samp{@var{var}=@var{val}}@comma{}
where @samp{@var{var}} is a variable and @samp{@var{val}} is its value.
The available variables are:
an absolute or relative error on the value of the objective
function evaluated on a number of degrees of freedom basis@comma{}
@samp{@var{eps}} or @samp{@var{reps}} (use @samp{@var{nlopt_eps}} or
@samp{@var{nlopt_reps}} for the NLopt iteration-based values)@comma{}
an absolute or relative error on the components of the solution
vector@comma{} @samp{@var{xeps}} or @samp{@var{xreps}}@comma{}
a value of the objective function@comma{} @samp{@var{val}}@comma{}
a maximum number of iterations@comma{} @samp{@var{itermax}}@comma{}
a maximum computation time@comma{} @samp{@var{time}}@comma{} or a maximum
number of iteration loops@comma{} @samp{@var{loopmax}}
(see option @samp{@option{-morphooptialgomaxiter}}).
Combine them with @samp{@SEPNODEP}.
Optimization stops as soon as one stopping criterion is verified.
Optimization can also be stopped anytime using the Ctrl+C
command.
,
any, eps=1e-6 (val=1e-4@comma{}iter=10000 for @option{-morpho centroidal})}

@optsec{-morphooptialgo, char_string,
Specify the optimization algorithm. The available values are
@samp{subplex} (Subplex)@comma{}
@samp{praxis} (Praxis)@comma{}
@samp{neldermead} (Nelder-Mead)@comma{}
@samp{cobyla} (Cobyla)@comma{}
@samp{bobyqa} (Bobyqa) and
@samp{newuoa} (Newuoa) --- only @samp{subplex} and @samp{praxis} are
recommended; it is also possible to provide several algorithms combined
with @samp{@SEPNODEP{}}@comma{} in which case the additional algorithms
may be used if previous ones fail.
In the case of @option{-morpho centroidal}@comma{} another available
value is @samp{lloyd} (Lloyd's algorithm); to specify the seed displacement
factor (from the seed to the centroid)@comma{} use
@samp{lloyd(@var{factor})} (the default value is 1.9).
Another available value (use only if you know what you are doing) is
@samp{random(@var{seednb}@comma{}@var{dimnb}@comma{}@var{min}@comma{}@var{max}@comma{}@var{id})}@comma{}
for which@comma{} at each odd iteration@comma{} each of @samp{@var{seednb}}
seeds sees @samp{@var{dimnb}} of its attributes (among those specified by option
@option{-morphooptidof}) being randomly perturbed@comma{} the norm of the total perturbation vector ranging from @samp{@var{min}}--@samp{@var{max}}; @samp{@var{id}} is the identifier of the distribution (similarly to option @option{-id}); variables can be
any mathematical expression based on
@samp{@var{seednb}} (the total number of seeds)@comma{}
@samp{@var{dim}} (the tessellation dimension)@comma{}
@samp{@var{avdiameq}} (the average equivalent cell diameter) and
@samp{@var{inistep}} (the value of @option{-morphooptiinistep}); at each next
(even) iteration@comma{} the attributes of the seeds are reverted to their
original values.
,
any, subplex@SEPNODEP{}praxis (lloyd for @option{-morpho centroidal})}

@optsec{-morphooptialgoneigh, char_string,
Specify the neighbour search algorithm. The available values are
@samp{nanoflann} (nanoflann) and
@samp{qsort} (direct computation with qsort).  @samp{nanoflann} is much
faster.
,
any, nanoflann}

@optsec{-morphooptigrid, char_string,
Specify the grids used to discretize the distributions. Provide the values using the syntax
@samp{@var{var}@SEPDEP{}@var{grid}}@comma{} where @var{var} is
the variable@comma{} among @code{diameq}@comma{} @code{size} and
@code{sphericity} and @var{grid} is the grid.
The grid must be of the form @samp{regular(@var{min},@var{max},@var{bin_nb})}@comma{}
where @code{@var{min}} and @code{@var{max}} are the minimum and maximum
values of the grid interval@comma{} respectively@comma{} and
@code{@var{bin_nb}} is the number of bins.
,
any, diameq:regular(-1@comma{}10@comma{}1100)@comma{}size:regular(-1@comma{}10@comma{}1100)@comma{}sphericity:regular(-0.1@comma{}1.1@comma{}1200)}

@optsec{-morphooptismooth, char_string,
Specify the standard deviations of the Gaussian distributions which are
assigned to each cell data to compute the distributions.  Provide the values
using the syntax @samp{@var{var}@SEPDEP{}@var{val}}@comma{} where @var{var} is
the variable@comma{} among @code{diameq}@comma{} @code{size} and
@code{sphericity} and @var{val} is the value.
It is also possible to specify how the convolution functions should be treated: provide @samp{analytical} for analytical functions or @samp{numerical} for numerical functions (the default@comma{} recommended).
Combine with @samp{@SEPNODEP}.
,
any, diameq@SEPDEP{}0.05@SEPNODEP{}size@SEPDEP{}0.05@SEPNODEP{}sphericity@SEPDEP{}0.005@comma{}numerical}

@optsec{-morphooptideltamax, real,
Specify the maximal value by which each variable is allowed to change
during optimization.
,
any>=0, HUGE_VAL}

@optsec{-morphooptiinistep, real,
Specify the step used to perturb the seed positions and weights when
optimization begins.  The argument can be a function of
@var{avdiameq}@comma{} the average equivalent cell diameter.
,
any>0, avdiameq/10}

@optsec{-morphooptilogtime, char_string,
Log the time taken during the optimization process.
The keys are provided in @ref{Tessellation Optimization Keys}.
The log file has extension @file{.logtime}.
,
any, none}

@optsec{-morphooptilogvar, char_string,
Log the variables@comma{} i.e.@ the seed attributes@comma{}
during the optimization process.
The keys are provided in @ref{Tessellation Optimization Keys}.
The log file has extension @file{.logvar}.
,
any, none}

@optsec{-morphooptilogval, char_string,
Log the value of the objective function during the optimization process.
The keys are provided in @ref{Tessellation Optimization Keys}.
The log file has extension @file{.logval}.
,
any, none}

@optsec{-morphooptilogdis, char_string,
Log the distributions during the optimization process.
The keys are provided in @ref{Tessellation Optimization Keys}.
The log files have extension @file{.logdis*}.
,
any, none}

@optsec{-morphooptilogtesr, char_string,
Log the raster tessellation voxel data during the optimization process.
The keys are provided in @ref{Tessellation Optimization Keys}.
The log file has extension @file{.logtesr}.
,
any, none}

@c @optsec{-morphooptilog, char_string,
@c Get a log of the optimization process.
@c @samp{@code{seed}} for the seed coordinates and weights@comma{}
@c @samp{@code{dis}} for the distributions and
@c @samp{@code{obj}} for the objective function.
@c For raster tessellation@comma{} provide @samp{@code{tesr}} to get the
@c tesr@comma{} which may differ from the input tesr when using
@c @option{-morphooptiobjective surf}).
@c Combine the values @w{with @samp{@SEPNODEP}}.
@c (If asking to @samp{time}@comma{} avoid asking for other information since
@c writing the log files may bias the computation time.)
@c Provide @code{@samp{all}} for all and @code{@samp{none}} for none.  The
@c output files have extensions starting by @samp{@file{.topt}}.
@c ,
@c see above list, none}

@subsection Crystal Orientation Options

@opt{-ori, char_string,
Specify the type of crystal orientation distribution.
It can be:@*
@bullet{} @samp{random} for randomly-distributed orientations in 3D space;@*
@bullet{} @samp{uniform} for uniformly-distributed orientations in 3D space
(the crystal symmetry must be specified using @option{-oricrysym});@*
@bullet{} @samp{fibre(@var{dirs_x}@comma{}@var{dirs_y}@comma{}@var{dirs_z}@comma{}@var{dirc_x}@comma{}@var{dirc_y}@comma{}@var{dirc_z})}
for randomly-distributed orientations about the fibre defined by crystal direction
(@code{@var{dirc_x}}@comma{} @code{@var{dirc_y}}@comma{} @code{@var{dirc_z}})
parallel to sample direction
(@code{@var{dirs_x}}@comma{} @code{@var{dirs_y}}@comma{} @code{@var{dirs_z}});@*
@bullet{} an ideal orientation@comma{} see @ref{Rotations and Orientations};@*
@bullet{} a discrete orientation defined using an orientation descriptor:@*
@samp{g(@var{g11}@comma{}@var{g12}@comma{}@var{g13}@comma{}@var{g21}@comma{}@var{g22}@comma{}@var{g23}@comma{}@var{g31}@comma{}@var{g32}@comma{}@var{g33}@comma{})}
for a rotation matrix@comma{}
@samp{e(@var{e1}@comma{}@var{e2}@comma{}@var{e3})} for Euler angles
  in Bunge convention@comma{}
@samp{ek(@var{ek1}@comma{}@var{ek2}@comma{}@var{ek3})} for Euler angles
  in Kocks convention@comma{}
@samp{er(@var{er1}@comma{}@var{er2}@comma{}@var{er3})} for Euler angles
  in Roe convention@comma{}
@samp{rtheta(@var{r1}@comma{}@var{r2}@comma{}@var{r3}@comma{}@var{theta})} for an
  axis@w{ /} angle (in degrees) pair@comma{}
@samp{q(@var{q1}@comma{}@var{q2}@comma{}@var{q3}@comma{}@var{q4})} for a
  quaternion@comma{}
@samp{R(@var{R1}@comma{}@var{R2}@comma{}@var{R3})} for a
  Rodrigues vector and
@samp{m(@var{h}@comma{}@var{k}@comma{}@var{l}@comma{}@var{u}@comma{}@var{v}@comma{}@var{w})}
for Miller indices;@*
@bullet{} @samp{equal} for orientations equal to the one of the parent
cell;@*
@bullet{} @samp{spread(@var{thetam})} for orientations randomly distributed
about the one of the parent cell@comma{} according to a 3-variate normal
distribution@comma{} and so that the average misorientation angle with respect
to the average orientation is equal to @code{@var{thetam}};@*
@bullet{} @samp{file(@var{filename})@SEPDEP{}@var{des}} for reading
  orientations from file @file{@var{filename}} and written
  using the descriptor @code{@var{des}} (@pxref{Rotations and Orientations});
  if Euler angles (@code{e})@comma{} the descriptor can be omitted.
,
see above list, random}

@opt{-oricrysym, char_string, Specify the crystal symmetry (@pxref{Crystal
Symmetries}).  This is used by option @option{-ori uniform}
and to reduce the domain of definition of the orientation descriptors.,
see above, triclinic}

@optsec{-orioptiini, char_string,
Specify the initial crystal orientations. Provide
@samp{random} for random orientations@comma{} or
@samp{file(@var{filename})@SEPDEP{}@var{des}} for reading
orientations from file @file{@var{filename}} and written
using the descriptor @code{@var{des}} (@pxref{Rotations and Orientations});
  if Euler angles (@code{e})@comma{} the descriptor can be omitted.
,
any, random}

@optsec{-orioptifix, char_string,
Fix some orientations during optimization.  Provide
@samp{none} for none@comma{}
or @samp{file(@var{filename})}@comma{} where @file{@var{filename}} contains
a logical value for each orientation: @samp{0} if the orientation is not
fixed and @samp{1} if the orientation is fixed.
,
any, none}

@optsec{-orioptistop, char_string,
Specify the stopping criterion of the optimization process@comma{} under the
form of a logical expression based on the following variables: the relative
error on the forces at orientations@comma{} @samp{@var{reps}}@comma{} and the
iteration number@comma{} @samp{@var{iter}}.
,
any, reps<1e-3||iter>=1e3}

@optsec{-orioptineigh, char_string,
Use only the close neighbourhood of orientations to compute their forces
(for @samp{@option{-ori uniform}}).
Specify
the radius of the neighbourhood@comma{} which can be any mathematical expression
based on @code{@var{dr}} (the average radius of an orientation).
@code{@var{Nstar}} is the grand number of orientations (i.e.@comma{}
taking crystal symmetry into account).
,
any, Nstar<10000?pi:20*dr}

@optsec{-orioptilogvar, char_string,
Log the variables@comma{} i.e.@ the orientations@comma{}
during the optimization process.
The keys are provided in @ref{Orientation Optimization Keys}.
The log file has extension @file{.logorivar}.
,
any, none}

@subsection Transformation Options

@opt{-transform, char_string(...),
Apply transformations to a tessellation (if scalar and raster tessellations
are written in output@comma{} they are transformed independently; i.e.@comma{}
rasterization preceeds transformation).@*
@*
The following transformations apply to a scalar tessellation:@*
@mybullet @samp{@code{scale(@var{x_fact}@comma{}@var{y_fact}@comma{}@var{z_fact})}}
scales a tessellation by
@code{@var{x_fact}}@comma{} @code{@var{y_fact}} and @code{@var{z_fact}}
along directions @var{x}@comma{} @code{@var{y}} and
@code{@var{z}}@comma{} respectively. For a 2D tessellation@comma{}
@code{@var{z_fact}} can be omitted.@*
@mybullet @samp{rotate(@var{axis_x}@comma{}@var{axis_y}@comma{}@var{axis_z}@comma{}@var{angle})}
for a rotation about the centre and by an axis/angle pair.@*
@mybullet @samp{translate(@var{dist_x}@comma{}@var{dist_y}@comma{}@var{dist_z})}
for a translation by distances @code{@var{dist_x}}@comma{} @code{@var{dist_y}} and @code{@var{dist_z}}
along directions @var{x}@comma{} @var{y} and @var{z}@comma{} respectively.@*
@bullet{} @samp{cut(@var{primitive1}@comma{}@var{primitive2}@comma{}...)} for cutting by a series of geometrical primitives (experimental).  The primitives can be:@*
@emph{(i)} @samp{hspace(@var{d}@comma{}@var{a}@comma{}@var{b}@comma{}@var{c})} for the half-space of equation @math{a@,x+b@,y+c@,z@geq{}d};@*
@emph{(ii)} @samp{sphere(@var{centre_x}@comma{}@var{centre_y}@comma{}@var{centre_z}@comma{}@var{rad})} for a sphere of centre @math{(@var{centre_x}@comma{} @var{centre_y}@comma{} @var{centre_z})} and radius @var{rad};@*
@emph{(iii)} @samp{cylinder(@var{basis_x}@comma{}@var{basis_y}@comma{}@var{basis_z}@comma{}@var{axis_x}@comma{}@var{axis_y}@comma{}@var{axis_z}@comma{}@var{rad})} for a cylinder of basis point @math{(@var{basis_x}@comma{} @var{basis_y}@comma{} @var{basis_z})}@comma{} axis @math{(@var{axis_x}@comma{} @var{axis_y}@comma{} @var{axis_z})} and radius @var{rad};@*
@emph{(iv)} @samp{ecylinder(@var{basis_x}@comma{}@var{basis_y}@comma{}@var{basis_z}@comma{}@var{axis_x}@comma{}@var{axis_y}@comma{}@var{axis_z}@comma{}@var{esaxis1_x}@comma{}@var{esaxis1_y}@comma{} @var{esaxis1_z}@comma{}@var{esaxis2_x}@comma{}@var{esaxis2_y}@comma{}@var{esaxis2_z}@comma{}@var{srad1}@comma{}@var{srad2})} for an elliptic cylinder of basis point @math{(@var{basis_x}@comma{} @var{basis_y}@comma{} @var{basis_z})}@comma{} axis @math{(@var{axis_x}@comma{} @var{axis_y}@comma{} @var{axis_z})}@comma{} ellipse section first axis @math{(@var{esaxis1_x}@comma{} @var{esaxis1_y}@comma{} @var{esaxis1_z})}@comma{} ellipse section second axis @math{(@var{esaxis2_x}@comma{} @var{esaxis2_y}@comma{} @var{esaxis2_z})}@comma{} ellipse section first radius @var{esrad1} and ellipse section second radius @var{esrad2}.@*
Append @samp{i} to a primitive name (to get @samp{cylinderi}@comma{} etc.) for the complementary shape.
@*
@mybullet @samp{planecut(@var{d}@comma{}@var{a}@comma{}@var{b}@comma{}@var{c})} for cutting by the (oriented) plane of equation @math{a@,x+b@,y+c@,z=d}.@*
@mybullet @samp{slice(@var{d}@comma{}@var{a}@comma{}@var{b}@comma{}@var{c})} for slicing a 3D tessellation by the (oriented) plane of equation @math{a@,x+b@,y+c@,z=d} (yielding to a 2D tessellation).@*
@mybullet @samp{mergecell(@var{expr1}@comma{}@var{expr2}@comma{}@dots{})} for merging cells
matching expression @code{@var{expr1}}@comma{} @code{@var{expr2}}@comma{} etc.@comma{}
where expressions are based on the variables defined in @ref{Tessellation Keys}.
Cell merging operates incrementally through expressions.@*
@mybullet @samp{rmcell(@var{expr1}@comma{}@var{expr2}@comma{}@dots{})} for removing cells
matching expression @code{@var{expr1}}@comma{} @code{@var{expr2}}@comma{} etc.@comma{}
where expressions are based on the variables defined in @ref{Tessellation Keys}.
Cell removing operates incrementally through expressions.@*
@mybullet @samp{resetcellid} for resetting cell ids (contiguous numbering from 1).@*
@*
The following transformations apply to a raster tessellation:@*
@mybullet @samp{@code{scale(@var{x_fact}@comma{}@var{y_fact}@comma{}@var{z_fact})}}
scales a tessellation by
@code{@var{x_fact}}@comma{} @code{@var{y_fact}} and @code{@var{z_fact}}
along directions @var{x}@comma{} @code{@var{y}} and
@code{@var{z}}@comma{} respectively. For a 2D tessellation@comma{}
@code{@var{z_fact}} can be omitted.@*
@mybullet @samp{rotate(@var{axis_x}@comma{}@var{axis_y}@comma{}@var{axis_z}@comma{}@var{angle})}
for a rotation about the centre and by an axis/angle pair.@*
@mybullet @samp{translate(@var{dist_x}@comma{}@var{dist_y}@comma{}@var{dist_z})}
for a translation by distances @code{@var{dist_x}}@comma{} @code{@var{dist_y}} and @code{@var{dist_z}}
along directions @var{x}@comma{} @var{y} and @var{z}@comma{} respectively.@*
@mybullet @samp{@code{renumber}} renumbers a tessellation to remove cells that are empty or have a zero id.@*
@mybullet @samp{@code{oriaverage}} sets the cell orientations (field @samp{**cell/*ori}) as the averages of the cell voxel orientations (field @samp{**oridata}).@*
@mybullet @samp{@code{crop:@var{shape}(@var{parameters})}} crops the raster tessellation by a shape@comma{} where @samp{@var{shape}(@var{parameters})} can be @samp{cube(@var{xmin}@comma{}@var{xmax}@comma{}@var{ymin}@comma{}@var{ymax}@comma{}@var{zmin}@comma{}@var{zmax})} or @samp{cylinder(@var{centre_x}@comma{}@var{centre_y}@comma{}@var{diameter})} (the axis is z).  The values can be any mathematical expression based on the variables defined in @ref{Raster Tessellation Keys} (see general). @*
@mybullet @samp{@code{autocrop}} reduces the raster to its minimal size.@*
@mybullet
@samp{@code{rasterscale(@var{x_fact}@comma{}@var{y_fact}@comma{}@var{z_fact})}}
scales the number of voxels of the raster by factors
@code{@var{x_fact}}@comma{} @code{@var{y_fact}} and @code{@var{z_fact}}
along directions @var{x}@comma{} @code{@var{y}} and
@code{@var{z}}@comma{} respectively. For a 2D tessellation@comma{}
@code{@var{z_fact}} can be omitted.@*
@mybullet @samp{@code{rmsat}} removes the cell
``satellites''@comma{} i.e.@ parts disconnected from the cell bulk.@*
@mybullet @samp{@code{grow}} grows the cells to fill the domain.@*
@mybullet @samp{@code{tessinter(@var{tess_file})}} computes the
intersection with tessellation @file{@var{tess_file}}.@*
@mybullet @samp{@code{addbuffer(@var{buffx}@comma{}@var{buffy}@comma{}@var{buffz})}}
adds a buffer of @code{@var{buffx}} void voxels on both sides in the x direction@comma{}
a buffer of @code{@var{buffy}} void voxels on both sides in the y direction and
a buffer of @code{@var{buffz}} void voxels on both sides in the z direction.@*
@mybullet @samp{@code{2d}} transforms a 3D tessellation with 1 voxel along z into a 2D tessellation.@*
Several transformations can be applied successively by combining them @w{with @samp{@SEPNODEP}}.
,
any, none}

@c @emph{(v)} @samp{torus(@var{basis_x}@comma{}@var{basis_y}@comma{}@var{basis_z}@comma{}@var{axis_x}@comma{}@var{axis_y}@comma{}@var{axis_z}@comma{}@var{rad}@comma{}@var{srad})} for a torus of basis point @math{(@var{basis_x}@comma{} @var{basis_y}@comma{} @var{basis_z})}@comma{} axis @math{(@var{axis_x}@comma{} @var{axis_y}@comma{} @var{axis_z})}@comma{} (major) radius @var{rad} and section radius @var{srad}.@*

@optsec{-sort, char_string,
Sort the tessellation cells (typically to
facilitate data post-processing).  Provide as argument the
mathematical expression used for sorting (@pxref{Mathematical and
Logical Expressions}).
, any, none}

@subsection Regularization Options

@opt{-regularization, logical,
Regularize a tessellation@comma{} that is@comma{} removes the small edges
and@comma{} indirectly@comma{} the small faces. In return@comma{}
faces can become non-planar (in 3D).  This is controlled by
options @option{-fmax}@comma{} @option{-sel} and @option{-mloop}.
Using regularization enables to get better-quality meshes using
@mM{} (@pxref{Meshing Module (-M)}).
,
0 or 1, 0}

@opt{-fmax, real,
Specify the maximum allowed face flatness fault (in degrees). The flatness
fault is the maximum angle between the normals at two locations on a
face.,
0 to 180,20}

@optsectwo{-sel, -rsel, -sel or -rsel, real,
Specify the absolute or relative small edge (maximum) length.
@code{rsel} is defined relative to the average cell size (volume in
3D and area in 2D).
The
default @code{-rsel 1} leads to a length of
0.25 for a unit volume cell in 3D and
0.125 for a unit area cell in 2D.
The value also enables to avoid mesh refinement with
the default meshing parameters (@pxref{Meshing Module (-M)}).
It is also possible to specify values on a per-cell basis.
The first way is to use the syntax
@code{@var{default_sel}@SEPNODEP{}@var{cell_expr1}@SEPDEP{}@var{cell_sel1}@SEPNODEP{}@var{cell_expr2}@SEPDEP{}@var{cell_sel2}...}@comma{}
where @code{@var{default_sel}} is the default small edge length@comma{}
@code{@var{cell_expri}} is an expression defining the set of
@w{cells @var{i}} and @code{@var{cell_seli}} is the corresponding small
edge length.
@samp{@code{@var{cell_expri}}} can be any
expression based on variables provided in
@ref{Tessellation Keys}.
The expressions are processed one after the other. When processing
expression @code{@var{cell_expri}}@comma{} the matching cells
are assigned @code{@var{cell_seli}} as small edge length.
Typically@comma{} option @option{-rsel} should be passed the same argument than
option @option{-rcl} of @mM{}@comma{} see @ref{Meshing Module
(-M)}. The second way is to load values from an external file using
the syntax @samp{file(@var{file_name})}@comma{} where @code{@var{file_name}}
is the name of the file containing the length values.,
any,-rsel 1}

@optsec{-mloop, integer,
Specify the maximum number of regularization loops.
During each loop@comma{} the small edges are considered in turn
from the shortest to the largest.
Regularization stops when the maximum number of loops is reached or no
edges are deleted during a loop.,
any,2}

@subsection Output Options

@opt{-o, file_name,
Specify the output file name.,
any, none}

@opt{-format, char_string,
Specify the format of the output file(s).
For scalar tessellations@comma{} the available formats are
the Neper @code{@samp{tess}}@comma{}
the Gmsh @code{@samp{geo}}@comma{}
the Ply @code{@samp{ply}}@comma{}
the STL @code{@samp{stl}} (for a separate file for each cell@comma{} append @samp{@SEPDEP{}bycell)}@comma{}
the Wavefront @code{@samp{obj}}@comma{}
the 3dec @code{@samp{3dec}}
and the Surface Evolver @code{@samp{fe}}.
For raster tessellations@comma{} the available formats are
the Neper @code{@samp{tesr}}
and the Kitware @code{@samp{vtk}}.
Orientations for the cells can be obtained using @code{@samp{ori}} (see
also options starting by @code{@samp{-ori}}).
Combine the values @w{with @samp{@SEPNODEP}}.
,
tess@comma{} geo@comma{} ply@comma{} stl(@SEPDEP{}bycell)@comma{} obj@comma{} 3dec@comma{} fe@comma{}
tesr@comma{} vtk@comma{} ori, tess}

@opt{-tesrformat, char_string,
Specify the format of the raster output file(s).
The available formats are ASCII (@samp{ascii})@comma{}
8-bit binary / unsigned char-type (@samp{binary8})@comma{}
16-bit binary / short-type (@samp{binary16} and @samp{binary16_big})
and 32-bit binary / int-type (@samp{binary32} and @samp{binary32_big}).
Formats @samp{binary16} and @samp{binary32} mean
little endianness while
formats @samp{binary16_big} and @samp{binary32_big} mean
big endianness.@footnote{Endianness is both written in the tesr file and
tested on the system when reading the tesr file, so that the user
normally does not have to
care about it (even when transferring files across systems).}
,
ascii@comma{} binary8@comma{} binary16@comma{} binary16_big@comma{} binary32@comma{} binary32_big,
binary16 or binary_big (depending on the system)}

@opt{-tesrsize, integer,
Specify the number of points of a raster tessellation along a direction of
the domain. In case of a domain of different lengths along the different
directions@comma{} the argument stands for the geometrical average of
the number of points along the different directions@comma{} so that the
raster points are as cubic as possible.
To specify different values along the x@comma{} y and z directions@comma{}
combine the values with @samp{@SEPDEP}.
,
any, 20}

@opt{-oridescriptor, char_string,
Specify the orientation descriptor used in the @file{.tess}@comma{} @file{.tesr}
and @file{.ori} files. It can be Euler angles in
Bunge@comma{} Kocks or Roe convention (@code{e}@comma{}
@code{ek}@comma{} @code{er})@comma{} rotation matrix (@code{g})@comma{}
@w{axis /} angle of rotation (@code{rtheta})@comma{}
angle of rotation (@code{theta})@comma{} Rodrigues vector
(@code{R}) or quaternion (@code{q}).,
above-mentioned values, e}

@opt{-oriformat, char_string,
Specify the format of the @file{.ori} output file. The available formats are:
the Neper-native @code{plain} (i.e.@: only the descriptors on
successive lines)@comma{} the Zset/Z@'ebulon @code{geof} and the
FEpX @code{fepx}.
,
above-mentioned values, plain}

@subsection Post-Processing Options

The first options apply to the cells and seeds of a tessellation or a
raster tessellation, independently of its dimension,

@post{-statcell, char_string,
Provide statistics on the tessellation cells.  Give as argument
the keys as described in @ref{Tessellation Keys} for a tessellation and
@ref{Raster Tessellation Keys} for a raster tessellation (combine with
@samp{@SEPNODEP}).
,
any, none,
.stcell}

@post{-statseed, char_string,
Provide statistics on the tessellation seeds.  Give as argument
the keys as described in @ref{Tessellation Keys} for a tessellation and
@ref{Raster Tessellation Keys} for a raster tessellation (combine with
@samp{@SEPNODEP}).
,
any, none,
.stseed}

For a tessellation, it is also possible to get statistics on an
entity-basis,

@post{-statver, char_string,
Provide statistics on the tessellation vertices.  Give as argument
the keys as described in @ref{Tessellation Keys} (combine with
@samp{@SEPNODEP}).
,
any, none,
.stver}

@post{-statedge, char_string,
Provide statistics on the tessellation edges.  Give as argument
the keys as described in @ref{Tessellation Keys} (combine with
@samp{@SEPNODEP}).
,
any, none,
.stedge}

@post{-statface, char_string,
Provide statistics on the tessellation faces.  Give as argument
the keys as described in @ref{Tessellation Keys} (combine with
@samp{@SEPNODEP}).
,
any, none,
.stface}

@post{-statpoly, char_string,
Provide statistics on the tessellation polyhedra.  Give as argument
the keys as described in @ref{Tessellation Keys} (combine with
@samp{@SEPNODEP}).
,
any, none,
.stpoly}

For a tessellation, it is also possible to get statistics on an
voxel-basis,
ww
@post{-statvox, char_string,
Provide statistics on the tessellation voxels.  Give as argument
the keys as described in @ref{Raster Tessellation Keys} (combine with
@samp{@SEPNODEP}).
,
any, none,
.stpoly}

Finally, it is possible to get statistics for a particular set of
points. The option applies to a tessellation.

@post{-statpoint, char_string,
Provide statistics on points.  The points must be loaded with option
@option{-loadpoint}. Give as argument
the keys as described in @ref{Point Keys} (combine @w{with
@samp{@SEPNODEP}}).
,
any, none,
.stpoint}

@subsection Advanced Options

These advanced options set running conditions for the optimization libraries,

@optsec{-morphooptialgomaxiter, real,
Specify the maximum number of iterations allowed to the optimization library
for running without decreasing the objective function.  The expression can be
any mathematical expression based on variable @samp{@var{varnb}} (the total
number of optimization variables).
,
any, max(varnb@comma{}1000)}

@subsection Debugging Options

@kindex -checktess
@inp{-checktess, file_name,
Check a tessellation file.  Provide as argument the file name.
Use this option if the tessellation file fails to load using
option @option{-loadtess} or in other modules.
,
any, none}

@section Output Files

@subsection Tessellation

@itemize
@item Neper tessellation file: @file{.tess}

It contains a scalar description of the tessellation.
See @ref{File Formats} for the file syntax.

@item Neper raster tessellation file: @file{.tesr}

It contains a raster description of the tessellation.
See @ref{File Formats} for the file syntax.

@item Gmsh geometry file: @file{.geo}

It contains a minimal description of the tessellation written under the
Gmsh geometry file format @file{.geo}.  This file can be opened with
Gmsh for visualization.

@item Ply file: @file{.ply}

It contains a description of the tessellation written under the
standard ``Polygon File Format'' @file{.ply}.

@item STL file: @file{.stl}

It contains a description of the tessellation written under the
STL (STereoLithography) format @file{.stl}.
If @samp{@option{-format stl:bycell}} was used, a separate file is written for each cell,
whose name ends in @file{-@var{id}.stl}, where @samp{@var{id}} is the cell identifier
written with leading zeros.

@item Wavefront geometry file: @file{.obj}

It contains a description of the tessellation written under the
Wavefront geometry format @file{.obj}.

@item 3dec file: @file{.3dec}

It contains a description of the tessellation written under the
3dec format @file{.3dec}.

@item VTK file: @file{.vtk}

It contains a description of the raster tessellation written under the
VTK format @file{.vtk} as supported by Amitex_ffpt.  Binary data are
always written using BigEndians.

@c @item tessellation debugging file: @file{.debug}
@c It contains a human-friendly description of the tessellation, for
@c debugging.

@item Orientation file: @file{.ori}

It contains crystal orientations for the tessellation cells.  The
orientations are written on successive lines, using the descriptor
specified by option @option{-oridescriptor} (see also
@ref{Rotations and Orientations}) and the writing convention specified
by option @option{-oriformat}.

@end itemize

@subsection Statistics

Statistics files are provided for cells, seeds, vertices, edges, faces, polyhedra and
points.  They are formatted with one entity per line.  Each line
contains the
data specified to the corresponding @option{-stat} option and described in
@ref{Tessellation Keys} and
@ref{Raster Tessellation Keys} (files @file{.stcell} and @file{.stseed}
only).

@itemize
  @item Tessellation cell statistics file, @file{.stcell}.
  @item Tessellation seed statistics file, @file{.stseed}.
  @item Tessellation vertex statistics file, @file{.stver}.
  @item Tessellation edge statistics file, @file{.stedge}.
  @item Tessellation face statistics file, @file{.stface}.
  @item Tessellation polyhedron statistics file, @file{.stpoly}.
  @item Point statistics file, @file{.stpoint}.
@end itemize

@subsection Tessellation Optimization Log Files

Log files are provided for the time, variables, statistical
distributions and objective function value.
The files contain the data specified to the corresponding
@option{-morphooptilog} option and described on @ref{Tessellation Optimization Keys}.

@itemize
  @item Time file, @file{.logtime}.
  @item Variables, i.e.@ seed attributes, file, @file{.logvar}.
  @item Statistical distribution files, @file{.logdis@var{id}}, where
	@var{id} is the identifier of the distribution.
  @item Objective function value file, @file{.logval}.
  @item Target raster tessellation file, @file{-obj.tesr}.
@end itemize

@subsection Orientation Optimization Log Files

A log file is provided for the orientation variables.
The files contain the data specified to the
@option{-orioptilogvar} option and described on @ref{Orientation Optimization Keys}.

@itemize
  @item Variables, i.e.@ orientations, @file{.logorivar}.
@end itemize

@section Examples

Below are some examples of use of neper -T.

@enumerate
@c Example_beg
@item    Generate a Voronoi tessellation containing 100 cells (with identifier = 1).
@com{neper -T -n 100 -id 1}
@item    Use an elongated domain and generate a Voronoi tessellation
containing 100 cells.
@com{neper -T -n 100 -id 1 -domain "cube(3,1,0.33)"}
@item    Generate a Voronoi tessellation containing 100 cells and apply regularization.
@com{neper -T -n 100 -id 1 -reg 1}
@item    Generate a 2D Voronoi tessellation containing 100 cells.
@com{neper -T -n 100 -id 1 -dim 2}
@item    Generate a tessellation containing 100 cells with an @var{x} columnar axis.
@com{neper -T -n 100 -id 1 -morpho "columnar(x)"}
@item    Generate a tessellation containing 100 cells with a bamboo structure along @var{x}.
@com{neper -T -n 100 -id 1 -morpho "bamboo(x)"}
@item    Generate a tessellation containing 100 cells with experimental grain-growth
morphological properties.
@com{neper -T -n 100 -id 1 -morpho gg}
@item    Generate a tessellation containing 100 cells with experimental grain-growth
morphological properties and an aspect ratio of 2:1:0.5.
@com{neper -T -n 100 -id 1 -morpho "gg,aspratio(2,1,0.5)"}
@item    Generate a tessellation containing 100 cells with experimental grain-growth
morphological properties, and get the equivalent diameters and
sphericities of the cells.
@com{neper -T -n 100 -id 1 -morpho gg -statcell diameq:rel,sphericity}
@item    Generate a tessellation of specified absolute grain size
distribution (and determine the number of cells accordingly).
@com{neper -T -n from_morpho -id 1 -morpho@*@ @ @ @ @ @
     "diameq:lognormal(0.1,0.03),1-sphericity:lognormal(0.145,0.03)"}
@item Generate a tessellation in a non-convex domain (by cutting the tessellation
    once generated).
@com{neper -T -n 100 -id 1 -morpho gg @*@ @ @ @ @ @
     -transform "cut(cylinder(1.2,0.5,0.5,0,1,0,0.4))"}
@item    Generate a 2-scale Voronoi tessellation containing
@iftex
@math{100@times10}
@end iftex
@ifinfo
100 x 10
@end ifinfo
cells.
@com{neper -T -n 100@SEPFRAC{}10 -id 1@SEPFRAC{}1}
@item    Generate a 2-scale tessellation containing 10 primary
cells with grain-growth morphological properties, each one divided into @w{lamellae} of width 0.1.
@com{neper -T -n 10@SEPFRAC{}from_morpho -id 1@SEPFRAC{}1 -morpho "gg@SEPFRAC{}lamellar(w=0.1)"}
@item    Generate a 2-scale Voronoi tessellation containing 10 primary
cells with grain-growth morphological properties, each one divided into @w{lamellae} of
widths loaded from file
@file{lam_width} and plane normals loaded from file @file{lam_normal}.
@com{neper -T -n 10@SEPFRAC{}from_morpho -id 1@SEPFRAC{}1 -morpho
  "gg@SEPFRAC{}lamellar(w=file(lam_width),v=file(lam_normal))"}

@verbatim
      lam_width:
       1 0.05
       2 0.10
       3 0.05
       4 0.10
       5 0.05
       6 0.10
       7 0.05
       8 0.10
       9 0.05
      10 0.10
@end verbatim
@verbatim
      lam_normal:
       1 1.000000 0.000000 0.000000
       2 0.000000 1.000000 0.000000
       3 1.000000 0.000000 0.000000
       4 0.000000 1.000000 0.000000
       5 1.000000 0.000000 0.000000
       6 0.000000 1.000000 0.000000
       7 1.000000 0.000000 0.000000
       8 0.000000 1.000000 0.000000
       9 1.000000 0.000000 0.000000
      10 0.000000 1.000000 0.000000
@end verbatim

@item    Generate a 2-scale Voronoi tessellation containing 3 primary
cells divided into 1, 10 and 100 secondary cells, respectively.
@com{neper -T -n "3@SEPFRAC{}file(myfile)" -id 1@SEPFRAC{}1}

@verbatim
      myfile:
      1 1
      2 10
      3 100
@end verbatim
@item    Generate a 2-scale Voronoi tessellation containing
@iftex
@math{2@times3}
@end iftex
@ifinfo
2 x 3
@end ifinfo
cells with specific seed coordinates at both scales (files @file{coo1} and @file{coo2}).
@com{neper -T -n 2@SEPFRAC{}3 -id 1@SEPFRAC{}1 \\ @*
@ @ @ @ @ @ -morphooptiini
"coo@SEPDEP{}file(coo1),weight@SEPDEP{}0@SEPFRAC{}coo@SEPDEP{}msfile(coo2),weight@SEPDEP{}0"
  \\ @*
@ @ @ @ @ @ -morpho voronoi}

@verbatim
      coo1:
      0.25 0.50 0.50
      0.75 0.50 0.50
      coo2:
      1 0.25 0.10 0.50
      1 0.25 0.50 0.50
      1 0.25 0.90 0.50
      2 0.75 0.50 0.10
      2 0.75 0.50 0.50
      2 0.75 0.50 0.90
@end verbatim

Note that @file{coo1} is a simple position file (@pxref{Position File})
while
@file{coo2} is a multiscale cell file (@pxref{Multiscale Cell File}).

@item    Generate a Voronoi tessellation containing 100 cells (with identifier = 1)
  with uniformly distributed crystal orientations and cubic crystal symmetry.
@com{neper -T -n 100 -oricrysym cubic -ori uniform}

@item    Generate 100 uniformly distributed crystal orientations with cubic crystal symmetry
(no tessellation).
@com{neper -T -n 100 -oricrysym cubic -ori uniform -for ori}

@c Example_end
@end enumerate
@c Example_end
